dnl	$OpenBSD: install,v 1.5 2014/03/19 01:59:48 tedu Exp $
OpenBSDInstallPrelude

There are several ways to install OpenBSD onto a disk. The easiest way
in terms of preliminary setup is to use the OpenBSD ramdisk kernel that can
be booted over the network, or from an existing DG/UX setup.


Booting from Network:

OpenBSD/MACHINE can boot off any network interface supported by the machine
PROM (SCM), even if the device itself is not supported by OpenBSD.

Your MACHINE expects to be able to download the installation kernel via TFTP,
after having acquired its IP address through reverse ARP when instructed to
boot from a network interface.  It will look on the TFTP server for a filename
composed of the machine's IP address in hexadecimal.  For example, a machine
which has been assigned IP address 130.115.144.11, will make a TFTP request
for `8273900B'.

Normally, this file is a symbolic link to the OpenBSD installation kernel in
ECOFF format, bsd.rd.xcf, which should be located in a place where the TFTP
daemon can find it (remember, many TFTP daemons run in a chroot'ed
environment).

The kernel can then be booted with:

    SCM> b inen()

(replace `inen' with the device name for your Ethernet interface, such as
 `dgen').

On some systems with older PROM, due to a PROM limitation, attempting to
load the kernel in memory past 3MB will fail, with the PROM seemingly stuck.
If all attempts to load the kernel image fail at the same byte count, but
pressing ^C brings the SCM> prompt back, it will be necessary to load the
kernel in two steps, by first loading the boot loader (which fits within
3MB), and have it download the kernel.

In that case, the symbolic link in the TFTP server should point to `boot'
instead of `bsd.rd.xcf'. The bootloader will then attempt to load the
kernel from an NFS server, after issueing a RARP query (to get an IP
address) and a BOOTPARAMS query (to know which NFS server to connect to).

For further details about diskless boot can be found in the diskless(8)
manual page, which is available online at
    http://www.openbsd.org/cgi-bin/man.cgi?query=diskless


Booting from DG/UX:

The OpenBSD installation kernel can be booted from the DG/UX boot loader, if
installed on a DG/UX partition.  This is as easy as copying bsd.rd.xcf to
a DG/UX partition, and boot it explicitely, as in:

    SCM> b sd()bsd.rd.xcf

if it the installation kernel has been copied to the root partition, or

    SCM> b sd()partition_name:/bsd.rd.xcf

if it has been copied to a different partition (such as `usr').


Installing using the DG/UX or network boot procedure:

OpenBSDInstallPart2

        Boot your machine from the installation media as described above.

        It will take a while to load the kernel especially from a slow
        network connection, most likely more than a minute.  If some action
        doesn't eventually happen, or the spinning cursor has stopped and
        nothing further has happened, either your boot media is bad, your
        diskless setup isn't correct, or you may have a hardware or
        configuration problem.

OpenBSDInstallPart3(,"sd0")

OpenBSDInstallPart4

OpenBSDInstallPart5

OpenBSDInstallPart6({:-CD-ROM, NFS, -:})

OpenBSDURLInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall

OpenBSDNFSInstall
							
OpenBSDDISKInstall(,{:-only -:})

OpenBSDCommonInstall

OpenBSDInstallWrapup

OpenBSDCongratulations



OpenBSDUnattendedInstallation
