dnl	$OpenBSD: install,v 1.2 2003/11/03 13:58:38 miod Exp $
OpenBSDInstallShortPrelude

Currently only MBR partitioning is supported, RDB support may be added
later.


OpenBSDInstallPart2

	At this time, the system can be installed from the supplied
	CD boot image, by network loading the bootloader or loading
	the bootloader and kernel from a MorphOS(?) partition.

	OpenBSD can be booted directly from the FFS filesystem.
	the MSDOS partition is not required.

	
OpenBSDBootMsgs

	You will next be asked for your terminal type.  You should just
	hit return to select the default (vt220).

OpenBSDInstallPart3({:- or "wd0" for IDE/ATA drives-:})

	Next you will have to edit or create a disklabel for the disk
	OpenBSD is being installed on.  If there are any existing
	partitions defined (for any operating system), and a disk label
	is not found, you will first be given an opportunity to run
	fdisk (MBR partitioned disk) and create an OpenBSD partition.

	If fdisk is being invoked, it will start by
	displaying the current partitions defined and then allow you
	to modify this information, add new partitions and change
	which partition to boot from by default.  If you make a mistake,
	you will be allowed to repeat this procedure as necessary to
	correct this.  Note that you should make OpenBSD be the active
	partition at least until the install has been completed.

OpenBSDInstallPart4({:-If you have DOS or Linux
	partitions defined on the disk, these will usually show up as
	partition 'h', 'i' and so on.

	If the disk is parititioned using MBR, the bootloader is
	automatically installed. However because fdisk is not LBA
	knowledgeable it may be necessary to run the 'b' command in
	disklabel to allow OpenBSD to use the entire disk.

	Note that all OpenBSD partitions in the disk label must have an
	offset that makes it start within the OpenBSD part of the disk,
	and a size that keeps it inside of that portion of the disk.  This
	is within the bounds of the 'c' partition.-:})

OpenBSDInstallPart5(sd0)

OpenBSDInstallNet({:-CD-ROM, -:})

OpenBSDFTPInstall

OpenBSDHTTPInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall
		
OpenBSDDISKInstall(,,{:- or MS-DOS-:})
		
OpenBSDCommonFS

OpenBSDCommonURL

OpenBSDCongratulations
