The alpha-specific portion of the OpenBSD 2.1 release is found in the
"alpha" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../2.1/alpha/
		INSTALL.alpha	Installation notes; this file.

		floppy.fs	The alpha boot and installation
				floppy; see below.

		*.gz		alpha binary distribution sets;
				see below.

		bsd		A stock GENERIC alpha kernel which
				will be installed on your system
				during the install.

In summary, there is one alpha floppy image called "floppy.fs".  This
is a bootable install floppy which can be used both to install and to
upgrade OpenBSD to the current version.  It is also useful for maintenance
and disaster recovery.

Bootable installation/upgrade floppy:

	This disk contains a file system, is bootable, and has
	enough utilities on board to prepare your hard disk drive
	for OpenBSD and to install the OpenBSD distribution.

	It also holds the utilities needed in order to upgrade a
	system to the current version of OpenBSD.

The OpenBSD/alpha binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the OpenBSD 2.1 release for the alpha.  There are seven binary
distribution sets.  The binary distribution sets can be found in
subdirectories of the "alpha/bins" subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.1
distribution tree, and are as follows:

	base21	The OpenBSD/alpha 2.1 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base OpenBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 39M gzipped, 109.7M uncompressed ]

	comp21	The OpenBSD/alpha Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN (yes, there are two!).
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 14.5M gzipped, 52.7M uncompressed ]

	etc21	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 89K gzipped, 448K uncompressed ]

	game21	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 5.0M gzipped, 15.5M uncompressed ]

	man21	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 2.4M gzipped, 8.9M uncompressed ]

	misc21	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.7M gzipped, 5.9M uncompressed ]

	text21	This set includes OpenBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 2.3M gzipped, 8.4M uncompressed ]

The alpha binary distribution sets are distributed in the same form
as the source distribution sets; that is, the members of a set form
a gzipped tar file which is assumed to be relative to the root of a
system's directory tree.  In other words, all sets files should be
extracted from '/'.  The instructions given for extracting the source
sets work equally well for the binary sets.
