OpenBSDInstallPrelude

dnl XXX document mopbooting from the SRM console.
dnl XXX check if recent SRM console still can netboot, and if so, if they
dnl XXX still use mop or a more recent protocol.
There are several ways to install OpenBSD onto a disk.  The easiest way
is to boot from the OpenBSD CD-ROM.  You can also use one of the OpenBSD
installation floppies, if your machine has a floppy drive.

Booting from Floppy Disk installation media:

	At the SRM console prompt, enter "boot dva0" and hit return.
	You should see info about the primary and secondary boot
	and then the kernel should start to load.  It will take a
	while to load the kernel from the floppy, most likely more
	than a minute.  If some action doesn't eventually happen,
	or the spinning cursor has stopped and nothing further has
	happened, or the machine spontaneously reboots, then either
	either you have a bad boot floppy (in which case you should
	try another) or your alpha is not currently supported by OpenBSD.

Booting from CD-ROM installation media:

	At the SRM console prompt, enter "show device" and hit return
	to find the device ID of your CD-ROM drive (the device ID is
	in the second column and should start with DKA for a SCSI
	CD-ROM drive).  If your drive shows up with a drive number
	with trailing zeros, you will want to ignore them (unless
	it is DKA0).  For example, if your CD-ROM drive is listed
	as DKA600, you want to use dka6 (device ID's are case
	insensitive).
	Insert the OpenBSD/MACHINE CD and enter
	"boot -fi OSREV/MACHINE/bsd.rd DEVICE"
	where DEVICE is the dka device name.  Note that the argument
	order is important here.
	You should see info about the primary and secondary boot
	and then the kernel should start to load.  If the kernel
	fails to load or the spinning cursor has stopped and nothing
	further has happened, you either have a hardware problem or
	your alpha is not currently supported by OpenBSD; try booting
	from a floppy instead.


Installing using the Floppy or CD-ROM procedure:

OpenBSDInstallPart2

	Boot your machine from the installation media as described above.

OpenBSDBootMsgs

	If you boot from a floppy, you will probably see several
	warnings.  You should be warned that the kernel can't figure
	out what device it booted from and that no swap space is
	present.  Do not be alarmed, these are completely normal.
	The first warning occurs because while OpenBSD/MACHINE can
	boot from the floppy drive, the kernel itself lacks a floppy
	driver.

	You will next be asked for your terminal type.  If you are
	installing from a non-serial console, the default of "sun"
	is correct.  If you are installing from a serial console
	you should choose the terminal type from amongst those listed.
	(If your terminal type is xterm, just use vt100).  After
	entering the terminal type you will be asked whether you
	wish to do an "install" or an "upgrade".  Enter 'i' for a
	fresh install or 'u' to upgrade an existing installation.

	You will be presented with a welcome message and asked if
	you really wish to install (or upgrade).  Assuming you
	answered yes, the install program will then tell you which
	disks of that type it can install on, and ask you which it
	should use.  The name of the disk is typically "sd0" for
	SCSI drives or "wd0" for IDE drives.  Reply with the name
	of your disk.

	Next the disk label which defines the layout of the OpenBSD
	file systems must be set up.  The installation script will
	invoke an interactive editor allowing you to do this.  Note
	that partition 'c' inside this disk label should ALWAYS
	reflect the entire disk, including any non-OpenBSD portions.
	If you are labeling a new disk, you will probably start
	out with an 'a' partition that spans the disk.  In this
	case You should delete 'a' before adding new partitions.
	The root file system should be in partition 'a', and swap
	is usually in partition 'b'.  It is recommended that you
	create separate partitions for /usr and /var, and if you
	have room for it, one for /home.  For help in the disk
	label editor, enter '?' or 'M' to view the manual page (see
	the info on the ``-E'' flag).

	The swap partition (usually 'b') should have a type of "swap", all
	other native OpenBSD partitions should have a type of "4.2BSD".
	Block and fragment sizes are usually 8192 and 1024 bytes, but can
	also be 16384 and 2048 bytes.

	The install program will now label your disk and ask which file
	systems should be created on which partitions.  It will auto-
	matically select the 'a' partition to be the root file system.
	Next it will ask for which disk and partition you want a file
	system created on.  This will be the same as the disk name (e.g.
	"sd0") with the letter identifying the partition (e.g. "d")
	appended (e.g. "sd0d").  Then it will ask where this partition is
	to be mounted, e.g. /usr.  This process will be repeated until
	you enter "done".

	At this point you will be asked to confirm that the file system
	information you have entered is correct, and given an opportunity
	to change the file system table.  Next it will create the new file
	systems as specified, OVERWRITING ANY EXISTING DATA.  This is the
	point of no return.

	After all your file systems have been created, the install program
	will give you an opportunity to configure the network.  The network
	configuration you enter (if any) can then be used to do the install
	from another system using HTTP or FTP, and will also be the
	configuration used by the system after the installation is complete.

	If you select to configure the network, the install program will
	ask you for a name of your system and the DNS domain name to use.
	Note that the host name should be without the domain part, and that
	the domain name should NOT {:-include-:} the host name part.

	Next the system will give you a list of network interfaces you can
	configure.  For each network interface you select to configure, it
	will ask for the IP address to use, the symbolic host name to use,
	the netmask to use and any interface-specific flags to set.  The
	interface-specific flags are usually used to determine which media
	the network card is to use.  The flags usually carry the following
	meaning:

		-link0 -link1	Use BNC (coaxial) port [default]
		link0 -link1	Use AUI port
		link0 link1	Use UTP (twisted pair) port

	After all network interfaces has been configured the install pro-
	gram will ask for a default route and IP address of the primary
	name server to use.  You will also be presented with an opportunity
	to edit the host table.

	At this point you will be allowed to edit the file system table
	that will be used for the remainder of the installation and that
	will be used by the finished system, following which the new file
	systems will be mounted to complete the installation.

	After these preparatory steps have been completed, you will be
	able to extract the distribution sets onto your system.  There
	are several install methods supported; FTP, HTTP, tape, CD-ROM,
	or a local disk partition.  Note that installation from floppies
	is not currently supported.

OpenBSDFTPInstall

OpenBSDHTTPInstall

OpenBSDTAPEInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall({:-"wdN" or -:},{:-only -:})

OpenBSDCommonFS

OpenBSDCommonURL

OpenBSDCongratulations
