
Your OpenBOOT ROM may need some setup.  If you are running OpenBSD on
a sun4c, or sun4m system, the ROM must be set to "new" command mode.
If your sun4c or sun4m machine comes up and gives you a `>' prompt
instead of `ok', type:

    >n
    ok setenv sunmon-compat? false
    ok

This is needed because OpenBSD relies on the behaviour of the "new" command
mode.  OpenBSD will not boot correctly on sun4c or sun4m systems that 
are not running in "new" command mode.  The sun4 systems such as the 4/110, 
4/200, and 4/300 system do not have a "new" command mode, and will work
fine as-is.


Your OpenBOOT ROM may need some setup.  You cannot use the security modes
of the sparc OpenBOOT ROM.  Make sure that the ROM security modes are
disabled:

    ok setenv security-mode none


Please note that while OpenBSD and SunOS have a reasonable degree of
compatibility between disk labels and filesystems there are some problems
to watch out for during initial installation or when trying to maintain
both OpenBSD and SunOS environments on the same system.

    If the OpenBSD fsck(8) utility is used on a SunOS filesystem, it will
    set OpenBSD "clean flags" and BSD4.4 summary fields in the superblock.
    SunOS does *not* like this and you will have to do a "fsck -b 32" under
    SunOS to access an alternate superblock to repair the filesystem.  You
    should always specify SunOS filesystem with a "pass number" of 0 in
    their /etc/fstab entry to prevent this, and preferably mount them "RO".

    If SunOS fsck is used on an OpenBSD filesystem in the default OpenBSD
    (4.4BSD) format, it will first complain about the superblock and then
    about missing . and .. entries.  Do *not* try to "correct" these
    problems, as attempting to do so will completely trash the filesystem.

    You should avoid using soft updates (option softdep in /etc/fstab)
    on your shared filesystems.
    Although untested, it is likely that SunOS would be confused by a 
    filesystem with soft update flags enabled.

The OpenBSD "Sun Compatible" disklabel have been extended to support 16
partitions, which may be compatible with Solaris, but the old SunOS
format(8) utility only sees the first 8 partitions and may "lose"
information about the extended partitions.

Use SunOS format(8) only with *extreme* caution on drives that contain
OpenBSD partitions.


OpenBSD and Sun BSD bootblocks are similar in concept, though implemented
differently.  The OpenBSD bootblocks are architecture independent and also
understand the extended disklabels with 16 partitions.  You can use SunOS
bootblocks, but remember that OpenBSD bootblocks must be installed with
OpenBSD installboot and SunOS bootblocks with SunOS installboot.


