		    Obtuse smtpd/smtpfwdd

	This is the Obtuse smtpd/smtpfwdd SMTP store and forward
proxy. It can be used to pass SMTP mail across a dual-homed bastion host
(such as in a firewall) with minimal danger.  It can also be used if
you simply don't want your big complicated mail agent (such as sendmail)
establishing direct contact with the outside world. It is useful for
people who wish to practice "Safe Sendmail" :-)

	These programs are documented at http://www.obtuse.com/juniper-docs/
Please consult the web site for the man pages. 

	http://www.obtuse.com/smtpd.html is a top level page for smtpd
that should get you started. 

	smtpd implements a minimal subset of the Simple Mail Transfer
Protocol as specified in RFC 821.  This daemon is used to talk to other smtp
mailers on the internet so that the host may receive mail. This is the
storing daemon. smtpd agressively checks the originating host and logs
anything it knows about it. it also imposes the RFC mandated limits on the
length of command lines, and checks the hostnames and mailnames given by the
remote client for anything suspicious. smtpd now checks the message headers
for unprintable characters, or excessively long (>255) lines. It can (at
your option) drop the connection on seeing anything suspicious.
smtpd runs as a non-privileged user inside a chroot to it's spooling directory.

	smtpfwdd is the forwarding daemon. It scans the directory used
by smtpd for completed mail messages. Upon seeing one, it forwards it
to it's intended destination by using sendmail or a similar mailer. You
may at your option, tell smtpfwdd to use a wrapper for sendmail which
checks the message body for anything you don't like instead of the
real thing. That is currently the best way to impose additional checking
on the content of a mail message. You may use any mailer to forward mail that 
takes arguments of the form:

mailer -f fromaddr toaddr toaddr1 toaddr2 ....
smtpfwdd also runs as a non-privileged user. 
 
For installation notes please see the file INSTALL. The default Makefile
(also in Makefile.default) builds the daemon with all features enabled. 
Makefile.nochecks can be used to build the daemon with no address checking
(nothing from address_check.c) enabled, and Makefile.minimal can be used
to build a minimal daemon that won't even do reverse dns lookups. 

