This file contains a list of bugs to fix and minor feature changes
needed in the Tk toolkit.  The list is ordered by the time when the
idea for the change first arose;  no priority should be inferred from
the order.

sccsid = SCCS: @(#) ToDo 1.8 96/02/16 10:55:14

106. Add feature to buttons for automatic defaulting, where button
allocates extra space for default ring.

136. Implement mechanism for using existing window as main window for
application, support with command-line argument in wish.

139. Change canvas Postscript generation to be smarter about font names
that have been abbreviated:  use X to look up the full name.

147. Add "window" entry to menus.

148. Add an "initProc" and a "freeProc" to TK_CONFIG_CUSTOM config types.

150. In SYNONYM options, specify a command-line switch for the other
option, not a database name.

153. Some fonts (e.g. Times) have underline characters that extend
*below* the official descent of the font.  Right now the underline
is invisible for these fonts in text widgets.  Find a way to make
this work in text?

150. Change the bindings for menubuttons to watch mouse motion events
and map them to menu or menubutton windows "by hand", so as to eliminate
the need for a menu to be a descendant of the menubutton.

151. Create an I/O event handler so that Tk can continue after a server
connection is lost.

153. Allow Tk applications to be embedded inside other Tk applications:
    - Allow the window for a widget to be specified explicitly, rather
      than being created automatically by Tk.  This would allow the
      main window for one application to use an internal window that
      already exists in another application.
    - Modify wish's main.c to allow a window id for the main window to
      be specified as a command-line argument.
    - Build a special widget for embedding other applications, which will
      implement the window-manager side of the ICCCM protocols, e.g.,
      feeding requested size information up from the embedded application
      into the enclosing widget hierarchy.

154. Improvements to canvases:
    - Allow items to be rotated?
    - Allow polygons to be outlined.
    - Make "raise" of window items work correctly.
    - In the "find" widget option, make it possible to restrict search
      to a particular tag.
    - Allow items to become visible/invisible.

156. Add a "wm anchor" option to make it easier to center windows.

157. Various improvements to option database:
    - Allow patterns to be read from database or deleted from database.
    - Allow database to be cleared without automatically reloading from
      .Xdefaults files.
    - Allow additional info to be read from various window properties.
    - Support new wildcards from X11R5.
    - Allow mechanism to extend to cover cases where there isn't even
      a window, or even an application by the name used in the option
      get command.
    - Allow options in database to override those specified on Tcl
      command lines?
    - Revert to X conflict-resolution scheme?

158. Make it possible for wish to run without a display.

159. Change option tables to be arrays of pointers, rather than arrays of
entries?  Makes it easier to keep separate named structures for particular
options, e.g. so that you can tell when an option has changed.

160. Change text scrolling so that the top of the window can fall in
the middle of a text line.

161. Allow text tabs to be specified in units of characters, rather
than just inches.

162. Fix tk_strictMotif to make it easier to turn on and off (e.g.
conditionalize the binding scripts, rather than the creation of
the bindings).

163. Change text bindings so that Enter and Leave events occur when
the mouse moves between disjoint ranges with the same tag.

164. Provide block insertion cursor in text widgets.
