The mvme68k-specific portion of the OpenBSD 2.0 release is found in the
"mvme68k" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../2.0/mvme68k/
		INSTALL.mvme68k	this document
		tars/		mvme68k binary distribution sets;
				see below.
		tools/		Base GENERIC kernel, tools,
				and an installation script.

The OpenBSD/mvme68k binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the OpenBSD 2.0 release for the mvme68k.  There are seven binary
distribution sets, and the "security" distribution set.  The binary
distribution sets can be found in subdirectories of the "mvme68k/tars"
subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.0 distribution tree, and are as follows:

	base20	The OpenBSD/mvme68k 2.0 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base OpenBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 11.7M gzipped, 36.0M uncompressed ]

	comp20	The OpenBSD/mvme68k Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN.
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 7.4M gzipped, 23.8M uncompressed ]

	etc20	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 91K gzipped, 450K uncompressed ]

	games20	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.8M gzipped, 7.0M uncompressed ]

	man20	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 1.8M gzipped, 9.3M uncompressed ]

	misc20	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.1M gzipped, 6.2M uncompressed ]

	text20	This set includes OpenBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 1.0M gzipped, 3.7M uncompressed ]

The mvme68k binary distribution sets are distributed in the same form as
the source distribution sets; catted together, the members of a set
form a gzipped tar file.  Each mvme68k binary distribution set also has
its own "CKSUMS" file, just as the source distribution sets do.  The
binary sets are "rooted" at /, that is, if you want to extract the
binaries "into" your system, i.e.  replace the system binaries with
them, you have to run the "tar xfp" from /.  Also note that if you
upgrade or install this way, those programs that you are using at the
time will NOT be replaced.  If you follow the normal installation or
upgrade procedures, this will be taken care of for you.

The "mvme68k/install" directory contains an install script, and a
GENERIC kernel.
