                       Term::ANSIColor version 4.02
              (A simple ANSI text attribute control module)

  This program is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify it
  under the same terms as Perl itself.  Please see the section LICENSE
  below for more information.

BLURB

  Term::ANSIColor provides constants and simple functions for setting ANSI
  text attributes, most notably colors.  It can be used to set the current
  text attributes or to apply a set of attributes to a string and reset
  the current text attributes at the end of that string.  Eight-color,
  sixteen-color, and 256-color escape sequences are all supported.

DESCRIPTION

  This Perl module is a simple and convenient interface to the ANSI
  terminal escape sequences for color (from ECMA-48, also included in ISO
  6429).  The color sequences are provided in two forms, either as
  constants for each color or via a function that takes the names of
  colors and returns the appropriate escape codes or wraps them around the
  provided text.  The non-color text style codes from ANSI X3.64 (bold,
  dark, underline, and reverse, for example), which were also included in
  ECMA-48 and ISO 6429, are also supported.  Also supported are the
  extended colors used for sixteen-color and 256-color emulators.

  This module is very stable, and I've used it in a wide variety of
  applications.  It has been included in the core Perl distribution
  starting with version 5.6.0, so you don't need to download and install
  it yourself unless you have an old version of Perl or need a newer
  version of the module than comes with your version of Perl.  I continue
  to maintain it as a separate module, and the version included in Perl is
  resynced with mine before each release.

  The original module came out of a discussion in comp.lang.perl.misc and
  is a combination of two approaches, one with constants by Zenin and one
  with functions that I wrote.  I offered to maintain a combined module
  that included both approaches.

  See the POD documentation for complete details, features, and usage.

REQUIREMENTS

  Term::ANSIColor is written in pure Perl and has no module dependencies
  that aren't found in Perl core.  It should work with any version of Perl
  after 5.6, although it hasn't been tested with old versions in some
  time.

  In order to actually see color, you will need to use a terminal window
  that supports the ANSI escape sequences for color.  Any recent version
  of xterm, most xterm derivatives and replacements, and most telnet and
  ssh clients for Windows and Macintosh should work, as will the MacOS X
  Terminal application (although Terminal.app reportedly doesn't support
  256 colors).  The console windows for Windows NT and Windows 2000 will
  not work, as they do not even attempt to support ANSI X3.64.

  For a complete (to my current knowledge) compatibility list, see the
  Term::ANSIColor module documentation.  If you have any additions to the
  table in the documentation, please send them to me.

  The test suite requires Perl and Test::More (part of Perl since 5.6.2).
  It also makes use of additional Perl modules for some tests.  These
  tests will be skipped automatically if the modules aren't available.  To
  run the full set of default tests, you will need the Perl modules:

      Perl::Critic
      Test::MinimumVersion
      Test::Pod
      Test::Pod::Coverage
      Test::Strict
      Test::Synopsis
      Test::Warn

  and their dependencies.  These modules are all available from CPAN.

  Some parts of the test suite are suppressed by default because those
  tests are normally only useful for the maintainer.  This includes tests
  of POD spelling and Perl coding style.  To enable those tests, set the
  environment variable RRA_MAINTAINER_TESTS to a true value.  For these
  tests, the additional Perl modules:

      Devel::Cover
      Test::Perl::Critic
      Test::Spelling

  and their dependencies as well as a spell-checking program (several are
  supported by Test::Spelling) are required.  These modules are all
  available from CPAN.

INSTALLATION

  WARNING: Installation of this package will replace the Term::ANSIColor
  that came with Perl.  You may want to save a backup copy of the standard
  version first.

  Follow the standard installation procedure for Perl modules, which is to
  type the following commands:

      perl Makefile.PL
      make
      make test
      make install

  You'll probably need to do the last as root.  If instead you wish to
  install the module by hand, simply copy it into a directory named Term
  in your Perl library directory.

SUPPORT

  The Term::ANSIColor web page at:

      http://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/ansicolor/

  will always have the current version of this package, the current
  documentation, and pointers to any additional resources.

  For bug tracking, this package uses the CPAN bug tracker at:

      https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Term-ANSIColor

  I welcome bug reports and patches for this package at rra@stanford.edu
  or via the CPAN bug tracker.  However, please be aware that I tend to be
  extremely busy and work projects often take priority.  I'll save your
  mail and get to it as soon as I can, but it may take me a couple of
  months.

SOURCE REPOSITORY

  Term::ANSIColor is maintained using Git.  You can access the current
  source by cloning the repository at:

      git://git.eyrie.org/perl/ansicolor.git

  or view the repository on the web at:

      http://git.eyrie.org/?p=perl/ansicolor.git

  When contributing modifications, patches (possibly generated by
  git-format-patch) are preferred to Git pull requests.

THANKS

  To Jon Lennox for looking at early versions of this module, providing
  feedback, and offering suggestions for improvement.

  To Jesse Taylor for writing the first significant script to use this
  module (colorized calsplit), thus offering innumerable opportunities to
  test and debug.

  To Jean Delvare for providing documentation of what the various
  attributes do on various different terminal emulators, and for noting
  that attribute 2 is dark.

  To Edward Avis for the implementation of uncolor.

  To Rani Pinchuk for the idea of ANSI_COLORS_DISABLED and an initial
  implementation.

  To ATricket for the information about what PuTTY, Windows telnet, and
  OpenSSH under Cygwin support.

  To Richard Maus for pointing out DARK was missing from the exported
  constants list and CYAN and WHITE were missing from the documentation.

  To Autrijus Tang for noticing a problem with string comparisons in the
  test suite.

  To Daniel Lindsley for the information about what Mac OS X Terminal
  supports.

  To Joe Smith for the original test files that exercise a wide variety of
  VT100 escape sequences including the ECMA-48 color control codes.  These
  have been replaced by an example script, but they were very useful.

  To James Bowlin for catching a bug in colored when $EACHLINE is set that
  caused it to not color lines consisting solely of 0.

  To Helge Kreutzmann for pointing out the need for warnings in the
  documentation about background colors that span newlines.

  To Baron Schwartz for pointing out that cyan and white were missing from
  the documentation.

  To Michael R. Wolf for pointing out that Wikipedia and the ECMA standard
  use faint instead of dark as the name of attribute 2.

  To openmethods.com voice solutions for contributing PUSHCOLOR, POPCOLOR,
  and LOCALCOLOR support.

  To Tim Bellinghausen for the AUTOLOAD taint fix for Perl 5.10.

  To Paul Miller for the idea and initial implementation of colorstrip.

  To Jakob Ilves for sixteen-color support and the initial documentation
  of bright color issues.

  To Revilo Reegiles for reporting problems with the colored function and
  non-array references with stringification defined, and providing a test
  case.

  To Kent Fredric for the request for italic and the report of a terminal
  emulator that supports it.

  To Simon Wistow for reporting that Term::ANSIColor was inadvertantly
  clobbering $@ when generating constant subs.

  To Kurt Starsinic for the initial implementation of 256-color support.

  To Magnus Woldrich for Term::ExtendedColor and for research on which
  emulators support 256 colors.

  To Stephen Thirlwall for the initial implementation of custom color
  support.

  To BlueT - Matthew Lien - 練喆明 for quick testing of 4.00 and reporting
  a problem with skipping one of the tests.

  To David Cantrell for testing with Perl 5.6.2 and debugging why a test
  case didn't work with its version of Exporter.

  To Larry Wall, as always, for Perl.

LICENSE

  The Term-ANSIColor distribution as a whole is covered by the following
  copyright statement and license:

    Copyright 1996 Zenin
    Copyright 1996, 1997, 1998, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2009,
        2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>
    Copyright 2012 Kurt Starsinic <kstarsinic@gmail.com>

    This program is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the same terms as Perl itself.  This means that you may
    choose between the two licenses that Perl is released under: the GNU
    GPL and the Artistic License.  Please see your Perl distribution for
    the details and copies of the licenses.

    PUSH/POP support submitted 2007 by openmethods.com voice solutions

  All individual files without an explicit exception below are released
  under this license.  Some files may have additional copyright holders as
  noted in those files.  There is detailed information about the licensing
  of each file in the LICENSE file in this distribution.

  Some files in this distribution are individually released under
  different licenses, all of which are compatible with the above general
  package license but which may require preservation of additional
  notices.  All required notices are preserved in the LICENSE file.
