dnl	$OpenBSD: install,v 1.10 2013/10/30 22:06:36 miod Exp $
OpenBSDInstallPrelude

There are several ways to install OpenBSD onto a disk. The easiest way
in terms of preliminary setup is to use the OpenBSD ramdisk kernel, bsd.rd,
which can be booted from tape, or an existing Mach partition.


Booting from the Installation Media:

Prior to attempting an installation, everything of value on the target
system should be backed up.  While installing OpenBSD does not necessarily
wipe out all the partitions on the hard disk, errors during the install
process can have unforeseen consequences and will probably leave the system
unbootable if the installation process is not completed. Availability
of the installation media for the prior installation, such as a Luna-88K
Mach tape, is always a good insurance, should it be necessary to "go back"
for some reason.

After taking care of all that, the system should be brought down gracefully
using the shutdown(8) and/or halt(8) commands, which will eventually go
back to the PROM prompt. Remember that the leftmost switch from the front
panel DIP switch #1 must be down to access the PROM prompt.

dnl Not until the bootblock can boot from tape.
dnl Booting from an installation tape:
dnl
dnl    The internal tape drive is usually configured as SCSI ID #4. At the
dnl    prompt, enter
dnl
dnl      b st(0,0,0)
dnl
dnl    to boot the first file from the tape. If your tape drive uses a
dnl    different SCSI ID, replace the middle number with the appropriate number
dnl    from the following table:
dnl
dnl      tape drive SCSI ID:     0 1 2 3 4 5 6
dnl      middle number for st(): 4 3 2 1 0 6 5
dnl
dnl    If the tape drive is connected to the external SCSI controller, add 10 to
dnl    the middle number. For example, to boot from a tape drive with ID #5
dnl    connected to the external controller, enter:
dnl
dnl      b st(0,16,0)
dnl
Booting from an existing partition:

    Copy the OpenBSD/MACHINE boot loader on one of the first 8 partitions
    (a-h). Copy the installation kernel (bsd.rd) to the same partition.

    At the PROM prompt, enter

      b sd(n,p) boot

    to boot the OpenBSD bootloader from the specified disk and partition.
    Replace 'p' with the partition number (usually 0, for the 'a' partition),
    and 'n' with the appropriate number from the following table:

      disk drive SCSI ID: 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
      value of 'n':       6 5 4 3 2 1 0

    On LUNA88K-2 systems, if the disk drive is connected to the external SCSI
    controller, add 10 to this number. For example, to boot from a disk drive
    with ID #0 connected to the external controller, enter:

      b sd(10,0)boot

    Once the OpenBSD bootloader starts, press any key to stop the countdown
    if the ``boot>'' prompt does not appear.

    Then, boot the installation kernel from the same partition:

     b sd(n,p)bsd.rd


Installing the system:

OpenBSDInstallPart2

	Boot your machine from the installation media as described above.

	It will take a while to load the kernel especially from a slow
	network connection, most likely more than a minute.  If some action
	doesn't eventually happen, or the spinning cursor has stopped and
	nothing further has happened, either your boot media is bad, your
	diskless setup isn't correct, or you may have a hardware or
	configuration problem.

OpenBSDInstallPart3(,"sd0")

OpenBSDInstallPart4

OpenBSDInstallPart5

OpenBSDInstallPart6({:-CD-ROM, tape, NFS, -:})

OpenBSDURLInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall
		
OpenBSDNFSInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall(,{:-only -:})

OpenBSDCommonInstall

OpenBSDTAPEInstall(1)

OpenBSDInstallWrapup

OpenBSDCongratulations
