The powerpc-specific portion of the OpenBSD 2.3 release is found in the
"powerpc" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../2.3/powerpc/
		INSTALL.powerpc	Installation notes; this file.

		CKSUM		Output of the cksum(1) and md5(1) programs
		MD5		usable for verification of the correctness
				of downloaded files.

		floppy.fs	The powerpc boot and installation
				floppy; see below.

		*.tar.gz	powerpc binary distribution sets;
				see below.

		bsd		A stock GENERIC powerpc kernel which
				will be installed on your system
				during the install.

As well you may be interested in

.../2.3/tools/
		miscellaneous i386 installation utilities like
		rawrite.exe, gzip.exe, and pfdisk.exe; see
		installation section, below.


In summary, there is one powerpc floppy image called "floppy.fs".  This
is a bootable install floppy which can be used both to install and to
upgrade OpenBSD to the current version.  It is also useful for maintenance
and disaster recovery.  In addition, the "tools/" directory contains some
utilities that might be useful for the installation.

Bootable installation/upgrade floppy:

	This disk contains a file system, is bootable, and has
	enough utilities on board to prepare your hard disk drive
	for OpenBSD and to install the OpenBSD distribution.

	It also holds the utilities needed in order to upgrade a
	system to the current version of OpenBSD.

The OpenBSD/powerpc binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the OpenBSD 2.3 release for the powerpc.  There are seven binary
distribution sets.  The binary distribution sets can be found in
the "powerpc" subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.3 distribution tree,
and are as follows:

	base23	The OpenBSD/powerpc 2.3 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base OpenBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 12.5M gzipped, 35.1M uncompressed ]

	comp23	The OpenBSD/powerpc Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN (yes, there are two!).
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 7.7M gzipped, 24.2M uncompressed ]

	etc23	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 92K gzipped, 450K uncompressed ]

	game23	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.8M gzipped, 6.7M uncompressed ]

	man23	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 2.5M gzipped, 9.6M uncompressed ]

	misc23	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.7M gzipped, 6.1M uncompressed ]

	text23	This set includes OpenBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 1.0M gzipped, 3.5M uncompressed ]
