dnl	$OpenBSD: install,v 1.1 2004/02/08 00:35:14 drahn Exp $
OpenBSDInstallPrelude

If OpenBSD will be sharing the disk with DOS or another operating
system, you should have already completed the section of these notes
that instructed you on how to prepare your hard disk.  You should know
the size of the OpenBSD area of the disk and its offset from the
beginning of the disk.  You will need this information when setting up
your OpenBSD partitions. 

There are several ways to install OpenBSD onto a disk.  The easiest way,
should your computer support it, is to boot off the OpenBSD CD-ROM, or
off the bootable CD-ROM mini image.

OpenBSDInstallPart2

	XXX 
	Booting with ABLE

	XXXX
	Cyclone firmware not supported.


OpenBSDBootMsgs

	You will next be asked for your terminal type.  You should just
	hit return to select the default (vt220).

OpenBSDInstallPart3({:- or "wd0" for IDE drives-:})

	Next you will have to edit or create a disk label for the disk
	OpenBSD is being installed on.  If there are any existing
	partitions defined (for any operating system), and a disk label
	is not found, you will first be given an opportunity to run
	fdisk and create an OpenBSD partition.

	If fdisk is being invoked on your behalf, it will start by
	displaying the current partitions defined and then allow you
	to modify this information, add new partitions and change
	which partition to boot from by default.  If you make a mistake,
	you will be allowed to repeat this procedure as necessary to
	correct this.  Note that you should make OpenBSD be the active
	partition at least until the install has been completed.

OpenBSDInstallPart4({:- If you have DOS or Linux partitions
	defined on the disk, these will usually show up as partition
	'h', 'i' and so on.-:})

	Note that all OpenBSD partitions in the disk label must have an
	offset that makes it start within the OpenBSD part of the disk,
	and a size that keeps it inside of that portion of the disk.  This
	is within the bounds of the 'c' partition if the disk is not being
	shared with other operating systems, and within the OpenBSD fdisk
	partition if the disk is being shared.

OpenBSDInstallPart5(wd0)

OpenBSDInstallNet({:-CD-ROM, -:},nofloppy)

OpenBSDFTPInstall

OpenBSDHTTPInstall

OpenBSDTAPEInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall({:-"wdN" or -:},,{:- or Linux-:})

OpenBSDCommonFS

OpenBSDCommonURL

OpenBSDCongratulations
