INSTALLATION NOTES for OpenBSD/MACHINE 1.1



Be sure to read _ALL_ of this document before you try to install
OpenBSD/MACHINE.



What is OpenBSD?
---- -- ------

OpenBSD is a Berkeley Networking Release 2 (Net/2) and 4.4BSD-Lite
-derived Operating System.  It is a fully functional UN*X-like system
which runs on many architectures and is being ported to more.  OpenBSD, 
is a creation of the members of the network community and without the
net it's likely that this release wouldn't have come about.

OpenBSD 1.1 is a evolutionary release which contains over a year of
changes to the kernel, user-level utilities, and documentation.

Continuing the multi-platform tradition, OpenBSD has added ports to
atari and mvme68k based machines.  Kernel interfaces have continued to
be refined, and now several subsystems and device drivers are shared
among the different ports.  You can look for this trend to continue.

OpenBSD 1.1 has significantly enhanced the binary emulation subsystem 
(which includes iBCS2, Linux, OSF/1, SunOS, SVR4, Solaris and Ultrix
compatibility) and several kernel subsystems have been generalized
to support this more readily.  The binary emulation strategy is 
aimed at making the emulation as accurate as possible.

OpenBSD 1.1 is also the first release to see machine-independent disk
striping.  The concatenated disk driver (ccd), which was previously
supported only by the hp300 port, has been vastly improved.  Many
bugs were fixed, and explicit references to device-dependent routines
removed and replaced by calls to the generic "vnode operation"
routines.  In addition, several features were added, including partition
support, dynamic configuration and unconfiguration via a user space system
utility program, and virtually unlimited number of component devices.

Many new user programs have been added in OpenBSD 1.1, as well,
bringing it closer to our goal of supplying a complete UN*X-like
environment. 


#include "whatis"


The Future of OpenBSD:
--- ------ -- ------

We hope to have regular releases of the full binary and source trees,
but these are difficult to coordinate, especially with all of the
architectures which we now support!  We hope to support even _more_
hardware in the future, and have a rather large number of other ideas
about what can be done to improve OpenBSD.  We intend to continue our
current practice of making the OpenBSD-current development source
available on a daily or nearly-daily basis.

We intend to integrate free, positive changes from whatever sources
will provide them, providing that they are well thought-out and
increase the usability of the system.

Above all, we hope to create a stable and accessible system, and to be
responsive to the needs and desires of OpenBSD users, because it is for
and because of them that OpenBSD exists.


Sources of OpenBSD:
------- -- ------

#include "mirrors"

OpenBSD 1.1 Release Contents:
------ --- ------- --------

The OpenBSD 1.1 release is organized in the following way:

.../OpenBSD-1.1/
		BUGS			Known bugs list (incomplete
					and out of date).

		CHANGES			Changes since OpenBSD's last
					release (and before).

		LAST_MINUTE		Last minute changes.

		MIRRORS			A list of sites that mirror
					the OpenBSD 1.1 distribution.

		README.files		README describing the
					distribution's contents.

		TODO			OpenBSD's todo list (incomplete
					and out of date).

		patches/		Post-release source code
					patches.

		source/			Source distribution sets; see
					below.

In addition to the files and directories listed above, there is one
directory per architecture, for each of the architectures that OpenBSD
1.1 has a binary distribution for.  There are also
'README.export-control' files sprinkled liberally throughout the
distribution tree, which point out that there are some portions of the
distribution (e.g. those containing crypt(3)) that should not be
exported from the United States, and that if you do export them, it's
your fault, not ours.

The source distribution sets can be found in subdirectories of the
"source" subdirectory of the distribution tree.  They contain the 
complete sources to the system.  The source distribution sets 
are as follows:

	dsrc11	This set contains the "domestic" sources.  These
		sources contain export-restricted encryption code
		and should not be exported from the U.S.
		[ 140K gzipped, 655K uncompressed ]

	gsrc11	This set contains the "gnu" sources, including
		the source for the compiler, assembler, groff,
		and the other GNU utilities in the binary distribution
		sets.
		[ 7.1M gzipped, 30.4M uncompressed ]

	ksrc11	This set contains the sources to the OpenBSD 1.1
		kernel, config(8), config.old(8) and dbsym(8).
		[ 6.0M gzipped, 27.0M uncompressed ]

	ssrc11	This set contains the "share" sources, which include
		the sources for the man pages not associated with
		any particular program, the sources for the
		typesettable document set, the dictionaries, and more.
		[ 2.4M gzipped, 8.9M uncompressed ]

	src11	This set contains all of the OpenBSD 1.1 sources which
		are not mentioned above.
		[ 9.3M gzipped, 41.6M uncompressed ]

It is worth noting that unless all of the source distribution sets
are installed (except the domestic set), you can't rebuild and install
the system from scratch, straight out of the box.  However, all that is
required to rebuild the system in that case is a trivial modification 
to one Makefile.

The source distribution sets are distributed as groups of files named
"set_name.xx" where "set_name" is the distribution set name, and "xx"
is the sequence number of the file, starting with "aa" for the first
file in the distribution set, then "ab" for the next, and so on.  All
of these files except the last one of each set should be exactly
240,640 bytes long.  (The last file is just long enough to contain the
remainder of the data for that distribution set.)

Catted together, the files belonging to a source distribution set 
comprise a gzipped tar file.  If you want to look at list of the files
contained in the set, you could use the command:

	cat set_name.?? | gunzip | tar tvf -

or to actually extract the files contained in the set:

	cat set_name.?? | gunzip | tar xfp -

In each of the source distribution set directories, there is a file
named "CKSUMS" which contains the checksums of the files in that
directory, as generated by the cksum(1) utility.  You can use cksum to
check the integrity of the archives, if you suspect that one of the
files is corrupt and have access to a cksum binary.

#include "contents"


OpenBSD System Requirements and Supported Devices:
------ ------ ------------ --- --------- -------

#include "hardware"


Getting the OpenBSD System on to Useful Media:
------- --- ------ ------ -- -- ------ -----

#include "xfer"


Preparing your System for OpenBSD Installation:
--------- ---- ------ --- ------ ------------

#include "prep"


Installing the OpenBSD System:
---------- --- ------ ------

#include "install"


Upgrading a previously-installed OpenBSD System:
--------- - ---------- --------- ------ ------

#include "upgrade"


Using online OpenBSD documentation
----- ------ ------ -------------

Documentation is available if you first install the manual
distribution set.  Traditionally, the UN*X "man pages" (documentation)
are denoted by 'name(section)'.  Some examples of this are

	intro(1),
	man(1),
	apropros(1),
	passwd(1), and
	passwd(5).

The section numbers group the topics into several categories, but three
are of primary interest:  user commands are in section 1, file formats
are in section 5, and administrative information is in section 8.

The 'man' command is used to view the documentation on a topic, and is
started by entering 'man [section] topic'.  The brackets [] around the
section should not be entered, but rather indicate that the section is
optional.  If you don't ask for a particular section, the topic with the
least-numbered section name will be displayed.  For instance, after
logging in, enter 

	man passwd

to read the documentation for passwd(1).  To view the documentation for
passwd(5), enter

	man 5 passwd

instead.

If you are unsure of what man page you are looking for, enter

	apropos subject-word

where "subject-word" is your topic of interest; a list of possibly 
related man pages will be displayed.


Administrivia:
-------------

Registration?  What's that?

If you've got something to say, do so!  We'd like your input.
There are various mailing lists available via the mailing list
server at <majordomo@OpenBSD.ORG>.  To get help on using the mailing
list server, send mail to that address with an empty body, and it will
reply with instructions.

There are various mailing lists set up to deal with comments and
questions about this release.  Please send comments to:

	openbsd-comments@OpenBSD.ORG

To report bugs, use the 'send-pr' command shipped with OpenBSD,
and fill in as much information about the problem as you can.  Good
bug reports include lots of details.  Additionally, bug reports can
be sent by mail to:

	openbsd-bugs@NetBSD.ORG

Use of 'send-pr' is encouraged, however, because bugs reported with it
are entered into the OpenBSD bugs database, and thus can't slip through
the cracks.

There are also port-specific mailing lists, to discuss aspects of
each port of OpenBSD.  Use majordomo to find their addresses.  If
you're interested in doing a serious amount of work on a specific
port, you probably should contact the "owner" of that port (listed
below).

If you'd like to help with this effort, and have an idea as to how
you could be useful, send mail and/or subscribe to:

	openbsd-help@OpenBSD.ORG

As a favor, please avoid mailing huge documents or files to these
mailing lists.  Instead, put the material you would have sent up
for FTP somewhere, then mail the appropriate list about it, or, if
you'd rather not do that, mail the list saying you'll send the data
to those who want it.


Thanks go to:
------ -- --

Members and former members of UCB's Computer Systems Research Group,
including (but not limited to):
	Keith Bostic
	Ralph Campbell
	Mike Karels
	Marshall Kirk McKusick
for their ongoing work on BSD systems, support, and encouragement.

Also, our thanks go to:
	Mike Hibler
	Rick Macklem
	Jan-Simon Pendry
	Chris Torek
for answering lots of questions, fixing bugs, and doing the various work
they've done.

Without CVS, this project would be impossible to manage, so our hats
go off to Brian Berliner, Jeff Polk, and the various other people
who've had a hand in making CVS a useful tool.

Dave Burgess <burgess@cynjut.infonet.net> has been maintaining the
386BSD/NetBSD/FreeBSD FAQ for quite some time, and deserves to be
recognized for it.

The following people (in alphabetical order) have made donations or
loans of hardware and/or money, to support OpenBSD development, and
deserve credit for it:
#include "donations"
(If you're not on that list and should be, tell us!  We probably were
not able to get in touch with you, to verify that you wanted to be
listed.)

Finally, we thank all of the people who've put sweat and tears into
developing OpenBSD since its inception in October (?), 1995.  (Obviously,
there are a lot more people who deserve thanks here.  If you're one of
them, and would like to mentioned, tell us!)


We are:
-- ---
(in alphabetical order)

Legal Mumbo-jumbo:
----- ----- -----

The following notices are required to satisfy the license terms of
the software that we have mentioned in this document:

#include "legal.common"

#include "legal"
