The sun3-specific portion of the OpenBSD 2.3 release is found in the
"sun3" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../2.3/sun3/
		INSTALL.sun3	Installation notes; this file.

		install/	Boot programs, a GENERIC kernel,
				a stand-alone RAMDISK kernel,
				and a miniroot filesystem image.
				see below.

		binary/		sun3 binary distribution sets;
				see below.


The OpenBSD/sun3 "install" distribution contains files that can be
used to install OpenBSD onto a completely "bare" sun3.  The files
in the `.../install' directory are described below:

	miniroot.gz	A gzipped copy of the miniroot filesystem.
			This image is to be un-gzipped and copied
			into the swap area of a disk.

	bsd-rd.gz	A gzipped copy of the "RAMDISK kernel"
			for installing the miniroot filesystem.

	bsd-gen.gz	A gzipped GENERIC kernel (for upgrade)

	netboot		A copy of the network boot program.
			This is useful if you are installing
			a diskless OpenBSD/sun3 system.

	tapeboot	A copy of the tape boot program, used
			as the first segment of a boot tape.

These files can be used to make a boot tape suitable for installing
OpenBSD/sun3.  These files can also be used to configure an NFS server
to support installation "over the network".  See the section "Getting
the OpenBSD System onto Useful Media" for instructions on either method.

The OpenBSD/sun3 binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the OpenBSD 2.3 release for the sun3.  There are seven binary
distribution sets.  The binary distribution sets can be found in
the "sun3" subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.3 distribution tree,
and are as follows:

	base23	The OpenBSD/sun3 2.3 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base OpenBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 7.2M gzipped, 19M uncompressed ]

	comp23	The OpenBSD/sun3 Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C and C++.  This set includes the system
		include files (/usr/include), the linker, the compiler
		tool chain, and the various system libraries (except
		the shared libraries, which are included as part of the
		base set).  This set also includes the manual pages for
		all of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 4.6M gzipped, 14.7M uncompressed ]

	etc23	This distribution set contains the system configuration
		files that reside in /etc and in several other places.
		This set MUST be installed if you are installing the
		system from scratch, but should NOT be used if you are
		upgrading.  (If you are upgrading, it's recommended that
		you get a copy of this set and CAREFULLY upgrade your
		configuration files by hand.)
		[ 64K gzipped, 348K uncompressed ]

	games23	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.8M gzipped, 6.8M uncompressed ]

	man23	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 850K gzipped, 3.3M uncompressed ]

	misc23	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.8M gzipped, 6.5M uncompressed ]

	text23	This set includes OpenBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 770K gzipped, 2.8M uncompressed ]
