Installation is supported from several media types, including:

	CD-ROM (with PROM versions >= 3.0)
	FFS partitions
	Tape
	Remote NFS partition
	FTP
	HTTP

However, you can only boot the installation procedure from disk, tape or
network. This requires some setup work to prepare a bootable image,
either a tape, or a compatible net boot server.

Although you can access the distribution sets directly from one of the
FTP mirrors over the internet, you may wish to transfer the sets to a
local FTP or NFS server, or copy them to a partition on the target
system's disk or onto a SCSI tape.


Creating a bootable hard disk using SunOS or other Un*x-like system:

	You can copy the miniroot image "miniroot{:--:}OSrev.fs" onto
	the hard disk you intend to boot on.  Traditionally, the
	way to do this is to use dd(1) to place the bootable filesystem
	image in the "swap" partition of the disk (while running in
	single user mode), and then booting from that partition.

	Using the "b" partition allows you to boot without overwriting
	any useful parts of the disk. You can also use another partition,
	but don't use the "a" or "c" partition without understanding
	the disklabel issues described below under "incompatible systems".

	This requires that you are running SunOS, Solaris, OpenBSD or NetBSD
	which have a compatible view of SunOS disk labels and partitions.

	Use the dd(1) utility to copy the file to the hard drive.
	Under SunOS, the command would be:

		dd if=miniroot{:--:}OSrev.fs of=/dev/rsd0b bs=36b

	The blocksize is arbitrary as long as it's a multiple of 512-bytes
	and within the maximum supported by the driver, i.e. bs=126b may
	not work for all cases.  Again, device/partition names may vary,
	depending on the OS involved.


Creating a network bootable setup using SunOS or other Un*x-like system:

	The details of setting up a network bootable environment vary
	considerably, depending on the networks host.  Extract the
	OpenBSD diskless(8) man page from the man{:--:}OSrev.tgz distribution
	set or see the copy on the OpenBSD web page.  You will also
	need to reference the relevant man pages or administrators guide
	for the host system.
	
	Basically, you will need to set up reverse-arp (rarpd) and boot
	parameter (bootpd) information and make the OpenBSD bootblock,
	kernel/miniroot partition, and a swap file available as required
	by the netboot setup.


OpenBSDXferPrelude


OpenBSDXferBootTape(,tapeboot obs=8k conv=sync,bsd.rd obs=8k conv=sync)

OpenBSDXferNFS

OpenBSDXferFFS
