README for lpansi.c v2.1					10/20/1994

		   Print to ANSI printer on local terminal

 SYNOPSIS
      lpansi [options] [file-list]

 DESCRIPTION
 The Problem
      UNIX supplies a printing program called lp <filename> which allows the
      user to print a text (or any really) file to a printer.
      Unfortunately, that printer is attached to the UNIX server which is
      not where the user usually is.  In my case, it is about 230 miles
      away.  I needed a similar program that would allow me to print to my
      home printer.

 The solution:
      The VT100 standard defines a printer on and off escape sequence.
      [FYI: esc[5i is printer on, esc[4i is printer off.] Lpansi is a VERY
      simple program that issues a printer on sequence, opens the files sent
      as an argument, reads it character by character, echos it to stdout
      (now your local printer) and ends by sending a form feed and printer
      off command.

 Usage:
      I had several purposes in mind when I wrote this.  The first was to
      find a way to replace lp in a gopher client I had with something that
      would print at home.  I also wanted to be able to print text files to
      my home printer directly from the UNIX prompt.  A natural extension of
      this is to add it to LYNX, and other printing clients as your printer
      command.

 Syntax:
      This program accepts miltiple filenames as an argument.  If no
      filename is present, lpansi will use standard input.

 Thanks:
      Thanks go to Michael Seibel on the PINE development team for helping
      me find the correct ANSI codes to turn off the printer. I found out
      later that PINE distributes a similar program called ansiprt which is
      supposed to do the same thing.  Here, the source code is provided so
      you may incorporate the concept directly in your program.


 Options:
	  -f  Form feed off, no form feed at end of each file
	  -v  Verbose, prints helpful information for debugging purposes.

 Disclaimer:
      [Everyone has one so...] I make no promises whatsoever about how this
      will work for you.  If you have VT100 and/or ANSI, it should work just
      fine.  If it doesn't, quit using it.  :)	This program is free to use
      and modify, but try to keep my name with it.  I don't do that much
      cool stuff, so I need all the credit I can get.  Thanks.

 AUTHOR
      Written by Gary Day (gday@comp.uark.edu)

 MODIFICATIONS
      Version 1.1 Modified by Noel Hunter (noel@wfu.edu)
      Version 2.0 Modified by Noel Hunter (noel@wfu.edu)
      Version 2.1 Modified by Noel Hunter (noel@wfu.edu)

 FILES
      /usr/local/bin/lpansi

 SEE ALSO
      lp, lynx, pine

 EXAMPLES
      lpansi .profile

      Will print the file named .profile to a printer attached to your
      terminal.  NCSA Telnet, WRC Reflections for PC, and Kermit are known
      to work.

      In pine, use lpansi by typing "m" for "Main Menu", then selecting "s"
      for setup.  Next, enter "p" for "Printer", and select "1. Printer
      attached to IBM PC or compatible, Macintosh".  From then on, when you
      choose print in pine, it will be sent to your terminal program and
      attached printer.

