OpenBSDInstallShortPrelude

Before you begin, you should decide if OpenBSD is to be installed
on the whole disk or share the disk with MacOS.

For stand-alone (No MacOS installed) or dedicated disks, the MBR
installation method should be chosen and no additional prep is necessary.

If it is to shared the disk with MacOS a partition must be preallocated
by the MacOS partition editor and MacOS installed to the proper partition.
This expects that the HFS partition will be the first partition on
the disk, and then the OpenBSD partition will follow.
This may require the disk be reformatted and reinstalled under MacOS
using the "Drive Setup" application.

OpenBSDInstallPart2

	At this time, the system can be installed from the supplied
	CD boot image, by network loading the bootloader or loading
	the bootloader and kernel from a HFS partition.

	Once the bootloader is installed on the local hard drive, the
	system can boot from it. OpenBSD may share a drive with MacOS
	if the process is followed carefully. Currently it is
	necessary to use OpenFirmware commands to dual boot between
	OS's, or multiple drives may be used with each OS owning drive(s).
	Note that on many of the systems is it not possible to
	automatically boot OpenBSD at this time.

	(Refer to "Preparing your System for OpenBSD Installation" above
	 for information on how to access and boot from Open Firmware)

OpenBSDBootMsgs

	You will next be asked for your terminal type.  You should just
	hit return to select the default (vt220).

	Now you will be asked whether you wish to do an "install"
	or an "upgrade".  Enter 'i' for a fresh install or 'u' to
	upgrade an existing installation.

	You will be presented with a welcome message and asked if
	you really wish to install (or upgrade).  Assuming you
	answered yes, you will be asked which terminal type to use.
	You should just hit return to select the default (vt220).

	The install program will then tell you which disks of that
	type it can install on, and ask you which it should use.  The
	name of the disk is typically "wd0" for IDE/ATA drives or
	"sd0" for SCSI drives.  Reply with the name of your disk.

	Next you will have to edit or create a disklabel for the disk
	OpenBSD is being installed on.  If there are any existing
	partitions defined (for any operating system), and a disk label
	is not found, you will first be given an opportunity to run
	fdisk (MBR partitioned disk) or pdisk (HFS partitioned disk)
	and create an OpenBSD partition.

	If pdisk is being invoked, It will issue a prompt which will
	allow one to delete the Unused partition, then using the "C"
	command create a new partition. It is necessary to display
	the partition table, either before deleting the free partition
	or after, to know the start and size of the partition.

	An example Partition map:The partition map may look like the following
	Before editing the table, it looks like:

	 #:                type name             length   base    ( size )
	 1: Apple_partition_map Apple                63 @ 1      
	 2:      Apple_Driver43*Macintosh            54 @ 64     
	 3:      Apple_Driver43*Macintosh            74 @ 118    
	 4:    Apple_Driver_ATA*Macintosh            54 @ 192    
	 5:    Apple_Driver_ATA*Macintosh            74 @ 246    
	 6:      Apple_FWDriver Macintosh           200 @ 320    
	 7:  Apple_Driver_IOKit Macintosh           512 @ 520    
	 8:       Apple_Patches Patch Partition     512 @ 1032   
	 9:           Apple_HFS untitled        2142310 @ 1544    (  1.0G)
	10:           Apple_HFS untitled 2      4120589 @ 2143854 (  2.0G)
	11:              Unused untitled 3      6330517 @ 6264443 (  3.0G)

	After editing the table, it should look like:
	 #:                type name             length   base    ( size )
	 1: Apple_partition_map Apple                63 @ 1      
	 2:      Apple_Driver43*Macintosh            54 @ 64     
	 3:      Apple_Driver43*Macintosh            74 @ 118    
	 4:    Apple_Driver_ATA*Macintosh            54 @ 192    
	 5:    Apple_Driver_ATA*Macintosh            74 @ 246    
	 6:      Apple_FWDriver Macintosh           200 @ 320    
	 7:  Apple_Driver_IOKit Macintosh           512 @ 520    
	 8:       Apple_Patches Patch Partition     512 @ 1032   
	 9:           Apple_HFS untitled        2142310 @ 1544    (  1.0G)
	10:           Apple_HFS untitled 2      4120589 @ 2143854 (  2.0G)
	11:             OpenBSD OpenBSD         6330517 @ 6264443 (  3.0G)

	This will likely be different based on the number of partitions
	created on the disk by the Apple partition editor.
	It is _VERY_ important to not change the start or sizes of partitions
	other than the ones that are to be used by OpenBSD, including
	the Apple_Driver.* and Apple_partition_map.

	---
	Command (? for help): p
	<output is in the before example above>
	Command (? for help): d 11
	Command (? for help): C
	First block: 6264443
	Length in blocks: 6330517
	Name of partition: OpenBSD
	Type of partition: OpenBSD
	Command (? for help): p
	<output is in the after example above>
	---

	After the partition is deleted, if the partition is printed,
	it will show up as:
	...
	11:          Apple_Free Extra           6330517 @ 6264443 (  3.0G)
	...

	If fdisk is being invoked, it will start by
	displaying the current partitions defined and then allow you
	to modify this information, add new partitions and change
	which partition to boot from by default.  If you make a mistake,
	you will be allowed to repeat this procedure as necessary to
	correct this.  Note that you should make OpenBSD be the active
	partition at least until the install has been completed.

	Next the disk label which defines the layout of the OpenBSD file
	systems must be set up.  The installation script will invoke an
	editor allowing you to do this.  Note that partition 'c' inside
	this disk label should ALWAYS reflect the entire disk, including
	any non-OpenBSD portions.  The root file system should be in
	partition 'a', and swap is usually in partition 'b'.  If you have
	DOS or Linux partitions defined on the disk, these will usually
	show up as partition 'h', 'i' and so on.  It is recommended that
	you create separate partitions for /usr and /var, and if you have
	room for it, also for /home.  Currently OpenBSD will not share a
	disk with any other operating system care should be taken not to
	overwrite any data on other disks in the system and that no data
	is on the disk to be used for OpenBSD/MACHINE.

	Note that all OpenBSD partitions in the disk label must have an
	offset that makes it start within the OpenBSD part of the disk,
	and a size that keeps it inside of that portion of the disk.  This
	is within the bounds of the 'c' partition.

	The swap partition (usually 'b') should have a type of "swap", all
	other native OpenBSD partitions should have a type of "4.2BSD".
	Block and fragment sizes are usually 8192 and 1024 bytes, but can
	also be 4096 and 512 or even 16384 and 2048 bytes.

	The install program will now label your disk and ask which file
	systems should be created on which partitions.  It will auto-
	matically select the 'a' partition to be the root file system.
	Next it will ask for which disk and partition you want a file
	system created on.  This will be the same as the disk name (e.g.
	"sd0") with the letter identifying the partition (e.g. "d")
	appended (e.g. "sd0d").  Then it will ask where this partition is
	to be mounted, e.g. /usr.  This process will be repeated until
	you just hit return.

	At this point you will be asked to confirm that the file system
	information you have entered is correct, and given an opportunity
	to change the file system table.  Next it will create the new file
	systems as specified, OVERWRITING ANY EXISTING DATA.  This is the
	point of no return.

	After all your file systems have been created, the install program
	will give you an opportunity to configure the network.  The network
	configuration you enter (if any) can then be used to do the install
	from another system using NFS, HTTP or FTP, and will also be the
	configuration used by the system after the installation is complete.

	If you select to configure the network, the install program will
	ask you for a name of your system and the DNS domain name to use.
	Note that the host name should be without the domain part, and that
	the domain name should NOT {:-include-:} the host name part.

	Next the system will give you a list of network interfaces you can
	configure.  For each network interface you select to configure, it
	will ask for the IP address to use, the symbolic host name to use,
	the netmask to use and any interface-specific flags to set.  The
	interface-specific flags are usually used to determine which media
	the network card is to use. Supply the appropriate media options
	as suggested, Typically no media flags are required as autodetect
	normally works.

	After all network interfaces has been configured the install pro-
	gram will ask for a default route and IP address of the primary
	name server to use.  You will also be presented with an opportunity
	to edit the host table.

	At this point you will be allowed to edit the file system table
	that will be used for the remainder of the installation and that
	will be used by the finished system, following which the new file
	systems will be mounted to complete the installation.

	After these preparatory steps has been completed, you will be
	able to extract the distribution sets onto your system.  There
	are several install methods supported; FTP, HTTP, tape, CD-ROM
	or a local disk partition.  To install from a tape, the distrib-
	ution sets must have been written to tape prior to running the
	installation program, either as tar images or as gzipped tar
	images.  Note that installation from floppies are not currently
	supported.

OpenBSDFTPInstall

OpenBSDHTTPInstall

OpenBSDTAPEInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall
		
OpenBSDDISKInstall(,,{:- or MS-DOS-:})
		
OpenBSDCommonFS

OpenBSDCommonURL

OpenBSDCongratulations
