The sparc-specific portion of the OpenBSD 2.2 release is found in the
"sparc" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is organized
as follows:

.../2.2/sparc/
		INSTALL.sparc	Installation notes; this file

                kc22.fs		The sparc boot floppy; see below.
		inst22.fs	The sparc installation floppy; see below.
		upgr22.fs	The sparc upgrade floppy; see below.
		miniroot22.fs	The sparc miniroot filesystem; see below.
                floppy22.fs     The sparc compressed ramdisk boot floppy

		CKSUM		Output of the cksum(1) and md5(1) programs
		MD5		usable for verification of the correctness
				of downloaded files.

		X11/		The X window system for OpenBSD/sparc 2.2
                                  
		*.tar.gz	sparc binary distribution sets;
				see below.

		bsd		A stock GENERIC kernel
                bsd.rd		A ramdisk kernel
		bsd.scsi3	A kernel with SCSI target 3 re-mapped as 0
				and 0 mapped as 3.

		installboot	The OpenBSD/sparc boot loader installation`
				program
		bootxx		The OpenBSD/sparc boot block
		boot		The OpenBSD/sparc secondary boot loader


Please note that there are multiple bootable images and kernels, intended
to allow installing OpenBSD/sparc in a variety of situations without
requiring a pre-existing working operating system.

The "kc22.fs" image is a bootable floppy image, which is used in conjunction
with "inst22.fs" or "upgr22.fs", to allow installing or upgrading systems
with supported floppy disk drives (not Sun4m at this time).

The "miniroot22.fs" is a small bootable root filesystem that can be used
for installation or upgrade where there is some means to copy the miniroot
image into a swap or unused partition on the system, and also for diskless
or net booting.  This can be convenient if you have a existing installation
of OpenBSD, NetBSD, SunOS, or Solaris and wish to test or upgrade the
existing system to OpenBSD.

The "floppy22.fs" is a new bootable floppy image, with contents similar
to a miniroot stored in a compressed kernel with pre-loaded ramdisk.  As
of release time, this version has not received adequate testing and may
not work reliably on many systems, but is provided as a convenience for
for people installing on Sun4m systems where the other floppy installation
method doesn't work due to lack of Sun4m floppy driver support.

These bootable images are also useful as "failsafe" boots for system
maintenance and disaster recovery.

The kernel and boot images are provided for net booting installations.
While the OpenBSD bootblocks will work with the provided miniroot images,
Sun bootblocks require a separate kernel image and root filesystem.


Bootable installation/upgrade floppies:
  
  kc22.fs
 	This disk is bootable, and only contains the boot loader and
        kernel.

  inst22.fs
	This disk contains an installation file system, and has enough 
	utilities on board to prepare your hard disk drive for OpenBSD.

  upgr22.fs
	This disk contains a file system, and has holds the utilities 
	needed in order to upgrade an existing OpenBSD (or NetBSD) system
	to a minimal working OpenBSD 2.2 system.

  floppy22.fs
	This disk contains a compressed ramdisk filesystem, and holds
        all utilities needed to install or upgrade to OpenBSD 2.2
  
  miniroot22.fs
	This is a miniroot filesystem image which can be copied to the
	swap partition of an existing OpenBSD, NetBSD, Linux, SunOS, 
	or Solaris installation to allow upgrading to OpenBSD 2.2


The OpenBSD/sparc binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the OpenBSD 2.2 release for the sparc.  There are seven binary
distribution sets.  These binary distribution sets can be found in
the "sparc" subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.2 distribution tree,
and are as follows:

	base22	The OpenBSD/sparc 2.2 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base OpenBSD utilities that are necessary for the system
		to run and be minimally functional.  It includes shared
		library support, and excludes everything described below.
		[ 12.7M gzipped, 39.7M uncompressed ]

	etc22	This distribution set contains the system configuration
		files that reside in /etc and in several other places.
		This set MUST be installed if you are installing the
		system from scratch, but should NOT be used if you are
		upgrading.  (If you are upgrading, it's recommended that
		you get a copy of this set and then CAREFULLY upgrade your
		configuration files by hand.)
		[ 97K gzipped, 510K uncompressed ]

	comp22	The OpenBSD/sparc Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN.
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 8.2M gzipped, 27.4M uncompressed ]

	game22	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.8M gzipped, 6.9M uncompressed ]

	man22	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 2.4M gzipped, 9.2M uncompressed ]

	misc22	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.7M gzipped, 5.9M uncompressed ]

	text22	This set includes OpenBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 994K gzipped, 3.7M uncompressed ]

