OpenBSD/sparc 2.1 runs on the following classes of machines:
	- sun4c (e.g. the SS1, SS1+, SS2, IPC, ELC, IPX, and SLC)
	- sun4 (e.g. the 4/100, 4/200, and 4/300.   note that support
		for the 4/400 processor is incomplete)
	- sun4m (e.g. sparc classic, 4, 5, 10, and 20) *** See Notes Below
	- faithful clones of the above Sun systems (e.g. Integrix)

OpenBSD/sparc 2.1 does NOT run on these machines (yet):
	- Sun 4/400 --  Lacking support for the I/O cache, and related
			ethernet problems.
	- sun4m 4/6XX (e.g Sparcserver 600MP) -- Different registers (auxio
			vs. leds), VMEbus on sun4m arch, I/O cache???
	- sun4d (e.g. SPARCcenter 2000, SPARCserver 1000) -- X-bus vs. M-bus
			multi-processor issues.
	- sun4u (e.g. Ultrasparcs) --  currently no support for 64-bit Sparc
			architecture extensions.
	- clones that are differnt from the Sun systems (e.g. Solbourne)

The minimal configuration requires 4M of RAM and ~60M of disk space.
To install the entire system requires much more disk space, and to run
X or compile the system, more RAM is recommended.  (OpenBSD with 4M of
RAM feels like Solaris with 4M of RAM.) Note that until you have
around 16M of RAM, getting more RAM is more important than getting a
faster CPU.)  Installation from "ramdisk" kernels requries 8M of RAM.

Supported devices include:
	sun4c and sun4m SBus video: 
		cgsix, cgthree, and bwtwo frame buffers

	sun4 video (not thoroughly tested...): 
		P4  -- on-board bwtwo, cgfour, cgsix, cgeight
                VME -- cgtwo, cgthree, cgsix 

	serial ports: 
		ttya and ttyb (can be used as console if needed),
                ttyc and ttyd (Sun 4/300 only)

	ethernet: 
		on-board AMD Lance ethernet ("le0"), 
		SBus AMD Lance ethernet cards, 
		on-board Intel 82586 ethernet (ie0 on 4/100's and 4/200's), 
		VME Intel 82586 ethernet cards

	SCSI: 
		on-board "esp" SCSI controller (sun4c's, and the 4/300),
		SBus "esp" SCSI controller, 
		Sun "SUN-3"/"si" VME SCSI controller (polled mode only, slow),
		Sun "SCSI Weird"/"sw" on-board controller (4/110 only, polled)

	VME disks:
		Xylogics 7053 VME/SMD disk controller ("xd"),
		Xylogics 450/451 VME disk controller ("xy")
		[note: VME/IPI disks are not supported]

	Sun floppy disk drive on sun4c machines.

	Sun keyboard and mouse.

	sun4c audio.


Hardware the we do NOT currently support, but get many questions
about:
	multiprocessor machines (ignores other CPUs..)
	audio driver for sun4m machines
	floppy driver for sun4m (can boot/install from ramdisk floppies though)
	interrupt driven SCSI driver for Sun 4/100's and 4/200's
        VME mti 16-port serial card
        VME alm2 16-port serial card
        VME mcp 4-port serial card 
        VME IPI controller
        VME cgfive framebuffer
        VME cgnine framebuffer
        VME GP/GP2 Graphics Processor
        SBus cgeight framebuffers
        SBus GS framebuffer (aka cgtwelve)
        SBus GT framebuffer ("Graphics Tower")
        SS20 SX framebuffer (aka cgfourteen)
        SBus ZX framebuffer (aka Leo)
        S24 (ss5 only) framebuffer


*** Note: sun4m and general sparc caveats

As of of the OpenBSD 2.1 release there are still some outstanding problems
with OpenBSD on the various Sparc architectures.  The sun4m architecture,
particularly the Viking/SuperSPARC implementations, is probably the least
stable and is also lacking useful floppy/audio support.  

The supplied GENERIC kernel is the best attempt at a configuration that
works on the widest range of machinery (sun4m and otherwise).  Custom
kernel configurations for sun4m may run into difficulties, as of release
GENERIC is your best bet for a stable sun4m kernel.

There are a number of people actively working on improving the stability
of OpenBSD/sparc in the sun4m area.  If you have problems with the
OpenBSD 2.1 kernel in this distribution, please visit the OpenBSD web
page (http://www.openbsd.org) and the mailing lists to review the current
status and check for updates.

If you have Sparc hardware you can donate or make available at nominal
cost, please mention this on the lists, many things aren't being tested
or developed simply because devlopers usually have only a Sparcstation
at hand, not an array of systems.  Donation or mid/long term loan of
UltraSparc (sun4u) or HyperSparc (sun4m) systems would help ensure the
long-term viability of OpenBSD on Sparc based systems.

Your support in terms of documenting previously unknown problems with
OpenBSD/sparc, helping debug known problems, implementing missing pieces,
and testing OpenBSD on various architectures is actively encouraged.
The OpenBSD mailing lists, web-pages and sendbug utility are your best
tools for helping make OpenBSD/sparc a better release.


