Installing OpenBSD is a relatively complex process, but if you have
this document in hand it shouldn't be too much trouble.

There are several ways to install OpenBSD onto a disk. The easiest way
in terms of preliminary setup is to use the OpenBSD miniroot that can
be booted off your local disk's swap partition.   The normal way is to
use the OpenBSD installation floppies.

If your Sparc is hooked up in a network and you can find a server to
arrange for a diskless setup, which is a convenient way to install on a
machine whose disk does not currently hold a usable operating system.
This is difficult to get set up correctly the first time, but easy to
use afterwards.  (see `Installing using a diskless setup' below).

It is also possible to install OpenBSD "manually" from a running SunOS
system, using SunOS tools and gnu tar and gunzip (see `Installing from
SunOS' below).


Installing using the OpenBSD floppies.

The OpenBSD/sparc floppies come in two varieties, a newer single floppy
version that is not well tested and the older multi-floppy set.  Both
accomplish the same thing, but the install/upgrade scripts and procedures
are quite different between the old and new version.

The other difference bewtween the the two forms are in their bootblocks,
and filesystems.  The "floppy21.fs" image is the compressed ramdisk form,
the "kc21.fs" paired with either "inst21.fs" or "upgr21.fs" comprise a
bootable kernel floppy and associated install/upgrade filesystem floppy.

To put the floppy image(s) on a floppy, you use a dd command like:
  
	# dd if=kc21.fs of=/dev/rfd0a bs=36b

After transferring the floppy image(s) to disk, bring the system down by:
 
        # halt
 
Then boot the floppy by typing the appropriate command at the PROM:
 
        ok boot fd()bsd         # for version 1 OpenBOOT ROMs
        ok boot floppy bsd      # for version 2 OpenBOOT ROMs

This will cause the kernel contained in the floppy to be booted.
After the kernel loads, it will eject the bootable floppy and prompt
for a filesystem floppy - for the two floppy installation insert
the appropriate filesystem flopppy, for the ramdisk installion,
just hit return, the filesystem image is internal to the kernel.

After the initial device probe messages you'll asked to start the
install or upgrade procedure. Proceed to the section `Running the
installation scripts' below.


Installing using the OpenBSD miniroot.

The miniroot is a self-contained OpenBSD filesystem holding all utilities
necessary to install OpenBSD on a local disk. It is distributed as a plain
file designed to be transferred to a raw disk partition from which it can
be booted using the appropriate PROM command. Usually, the miniroot will
be loaded into the swap partition of a disk. If needed, you can use another
unused partition, but remember that the partition will then not available
during the installation process and avoid using an "a" or "c" parition
since installing the miniroot at the beginning of a disk will overwrite
the existing disklabels/parition information for the whole disk.

Loading the miniroot onto your raw partition is simple. On OpenBSD as well
as SunOS you use a command like:

	# dd if=miniroot21.fs of=/dev/rsd0b bs=20b

(here `/dev/rsd0b' is assumed to be your swap partition). There's a
potential problem here if /dev/rsd0b is actually in use as a swap
partition by your currently running system. If you don't have another
disk or partition to spare, you can usually get away with running this
command in "single user" mode to avoid active swap parition activity.

After transferring the miniroot to disk, bring the system down by:

	# halt

Then boot the miniroot by typing the appropriate command at the PROM:

	> b sd(,,1)bsd 		# for sun4 monitors
	ok boot sd(,,1)bsd 	# for version 1 OpenBOOT ROMs
	ok boot disk:b bsd 	# for version 2 OpenBOOT ROMs

If you've loaded the miniroot onto some other disk than `sd0' adapt
the boot specifier accordingly, e.g.:

        > b sd(0,20,1)bsd       # example - scsi target 4 on sun4 monitors*
	ok boot sd(0,4,1)bsd	# example - scsi target 4 on V1 OpenBOOT ROM
	ok boot disk1:b bsd     # example - scsi target 1 on v2 OpenBOOT ROM

(*) for sun4 this is scsi-target*8+scsi-lun (usually 0) expressed in hex...

This will cause the kernel contained in the miniroot to be booted.
After the initial probe messages you'll asked to start the install
or upgrade procedure. Proceed to the section `Running the installation
scripts' below.


Installing using a diskless setup.

First, you must setup a diskless client configuration on a server. If
you are using a OpenBSD system as the boot-server, have a look at the
diskless(8) manual page for guidelines on how to proceed with this.
If the server runs another operating system, you'll have to consult
documentation that came with it (on SunOS systems, add_client(8) and
the Sun System/Networks administrators guide constitute a good start).

The set up is similar to SunOS diskless setup, but not identical, because
the Sun setup assumes that the bootblocks load a kernel image, which then
uses NFS to access the exported root partition, while the OpenBSD bootblocks
use internal NFS routines to load the kernel image directly from the
exported root partition.

Please understand that no one gets this right the first try, since
there is a lot of setup and all the host deamons must be running and
configured correctly.  If you have problems, extract the diskless(8)
manpage, find someone who's been through it before and use the host
syslog and tcpdump(8) to get visibility of what's happening (or not).

Your Sparcstation expects to be able to download a second stage bootstrap
program via TFTP after having acquired its IP address through RevARP when
instructed to boot "over the net". It will look for a filename composed of
the machine's IP address followed by the machine's architecture, separated
by a period. For example, a sun4c machine which has been assigned IP
address 130.115.144.11, will make an TFTP request for `8273900B.SUN4C'.
Normally, this file is a symbolic link to an appropriate second-stage
boot program, which should be located in a place where the TFTP daemon
can find it (remember, many TFTP daemons run in a chroot'ed environment).

You can find the boot program in `/usr/mdec/boot' in the OpenBSD/sparc
distribution. Unfortunately, it is necessary to install this file
differently for sun4 and sun4c clients: the sun4 version needs to have its
`a.out' header stripped off (otherwise the machine will crash), while the
sun4c version must retain it (otherwise the PROM will complain).

Here's an example to illustrate this whole mess:

    server# cd /<client-root-dir>/usr/mdec
    if client is a sun4:
	server# set SKIP=1
	server# set KARCH=SUN4
    else
	server# set SKIP=0
	server# set KARCH=SUN4C
    server# dd if=boot of=/tftpboot/boot.sparc.OpenBSD.$KARCH skip=$SKIP bs=32
    server# cd /tftpboot
    server# ln -s boot.sparc.OpenBSD.$KARCH 8273900B.$KARCH


After the boot program has been loaded into memory and given control by
the PROM, it starts locating the machine's remote root directory through
the BOOTPARAM protocol. First a BOOTPARAM WHOAMI request is broadcast
on the local net. The answer to this request (if it comes in) contains
the client's name. This name is used in next step, a BOOTPARAM GETFILE
request -- sent to the server that responded to the WHOAMI request --
requesting the name and address of the machine that will serve the client's
root directory, as well as the path of the client's root on that server.

Finally, this information (if it comes in) is used to issue a REMOTE MOUNT
request to the client's root filesystem server, asking for an NFS file
handle corresponding to the root filesystem. If successful, the boot
rogram starts reading from the remote root filesystem in search of the
kernel which is then read into memory.

As noted above in the section `Preparing your System for OpenBSD Installation',
you have several options when choosing a location to store the installation
filesets. However, the easiest way is to put the *.tar.gz files you want
to install into the root directory for your client on the server.

Next, unpack `base.tar.gz' and `etc.tar.gz' on the server in the root 
directory for your machine. If you elect to use a separately NFS-mounted
filesystem for `/usr' with your diskless setup, make sure the "./usr" base
files in base.tar.gz end up in the correct location. One way to do this is
to temporarily use a loopback mount on the server, re-routing <root>/usr to
your server's exported OpenBSD "/usr" directory. Also put the kernel and the
install/upgrade scripts into the root directory.

A few configuration files need to be edited:

	<root>/etc/hosts
		Add the IP addresses of both server and client.

	<root>/etc/myname
		This files contains the client's hostname; use the same
		name as in <root>/etc/hosts.

	<root>/etc/fstab
		Enter the entries for the remotely mounted filesystems.
		For example:
			server:/export/root/client       /     nfs  rw 0 0
			server:/export/exec/sun4.OpenBSD /usr  nfs  rw 0 0

Now you must populate the the `/dev' directory for your client. If you server
runs SunOS 4.x, you can simply change your working directory to `<root>/dev'
and run the MAKEDEV script: `sh MAKEDEV all'.

On SunOS 5.x systems, MAKEDEV can also be used, but there'll be error
messages about unknown user and groups. These errors are inconsequential
for the purpose of installing OpenBSD. However, you may want to correct them
if you plan to the diskless setup regularly. In that case, you may re-run
MAKEDEV on your OpenBSD machine once it has booted.

Boot your workstation from the server by entering the appropriate `boot'
command at the monitor prompt. Depending on the PROM version in your machine,
this command takes one of the following forms:

	> b le()bsd -s			# for sun4 monitors
	ok boot le()bsd -s		# for version 1 OpenBOOT ROMs
	ok boot net bsd -s		# for version 2 OpenBOOT ROMs

This will boot the OpenBSD kernel in single-user mode.

[[
NOTE: the latter two examples assume you operate the OpenBOOT ROM in
"new command mode". If your machine comes up and gives you a `>' prompt
instead of `ok', type:

    >n					# enter native OpenBOOT mode
    ok setenv sunmon-compat? false	# make it permanent
    ok
]]

If you use a diskless setup with a separately NFS-mounted /usr filesystem,
mount /usr by hand now:

OpenBSD# mount /usr

At this point, it's worth checking the disk label and partition sizes on
the disk you want to install OpenBSD onto. OpenBSD understands SunOS-style
disklabels, so if your disk was previously used by SunOS there will be
a usable label on it. Use `disklabel -e <disk>' (where <disk> is the
device name assigned by the OpenBSD kernel, e.g. `sd0') to view and
modify the partition sizes. See the section `Preparing your System for
OpenBSD Installation' above for suggestions about disk partition sizes.
Make sure all your partitions start and end on cylinder boundaries.

NOTE: if you are installing on a SCSI disk that does *not* have a SunOS
or OpenBSD label on it, you may still be able to use disklabel(8) but you'll
have to create all partitions from scratch. If your disk is listed in
`/etc/disktab', you may use the entry (which in most cases only defines
a `c' partition to describe the whole disk) to put an initial label on
the disk.  DO NOT USE `disklabel -r ...' TO INITIALIZE YOUR DISK LABEL;
THIS WILL LEAD TO UNPREDICTABLE RESULTS. This deficiency will be fixed
in a next release.

Here follows an example of what you'll see while in the disklabel editor.
Do not touch any of the parameters except for the `label: ' entry and
the actual partition size information at the bottom (the lines starting
with `a:', `b:', ...).

The size and offset fields are given in sector units. Be sure to make
these numbers multiples of the of the number of sectors per cylinder:
the kernel might be picky about these things, but aside from this you'll
have the least chance of wasting disk space.
Partitions on which you intend to have a mountable filesystem, should
be given fstype `4.2BSD'. Remember, the `c' partition should describe
the whole disk.
The `(Cyl. x - y)' info that appears after the hash (`#') character is
treated as a comment and need not be filled in when altering partitions.

Special note: the line containing `16 partitions:' is best left alone,
even if you define less then eight partitions. If this line displays
a different number and the program complains about it (after you leave
the editor), then try setting it to `16 partitions:'.


<BEGIN SAMPLE DISKLABEL SCREEN>
OpenBSD# disklabel sd2
 # /dev/rsd2c:
type: SCSI 
disk: SCSI disk
label: Hold Your Breath
flags:
bytes/sector: 512
sectors/track: 64
tracks/cylinder: 7  
sectors/cylinder: 448
cylinders: 1429
rpm: 3600
interleave: 1
trackskew: 0
cylinderskew: 0
headswitch: 0           # milliseconds
track-to-track seek: 0  # milliseconds
drivedata: 0

16 partitions:
#        size   offset    fstype   [fsize bsize   cpg]
  a:    50176        0    4.2BSD        0     0     0   # (Cyl.    0 - 111)
  b:    64512    50176      swap                        # (Cyl.  112 - 255)
  c:   640192        0   unknown                        # (Cyl.    0 - 1428)
  d:   525504   114688    4.2BSD        0     0     0   # (Cyl.  256 - 1428)
<END SAMPLE DISKLABEL SCREEN>


Installing using the new Single Floppy procedure.

The following is a walk-through of the steps you will take while
getting OpenBSD installed on your hard disk.  If any question has a
default answer, it will be displayed in brackets ("[]") after the
question.  If you wish to stop the installation, you may hit Control-C
at any time, but if you do, you may have to begin the installation
process again from scratch.  Using Control-Z to suspend the process
may be a better option. 

	Boot your machine using the floppy21.fs floppy.  When
	presented with the PROM monitor prompt, type(*):
		"boot floppy bsd" or "boot fd()bsd"
        and then hit return.  You should see about the primary and
	secondary boot and then the kernel should start to load.

	(*) See the PROM monitor information for your system.

	It will take a while to load the kernel from the floppy,
	most likely more than a minute.  If some action doesn't
	eventually happen, or the spinning cursor has stopped and
	nothing further has happened, either your boot floppy is
	bad or you are having hardware problems.

	You will then be presented with the OpenBSD kernel boot
	messages.  You will want to read them to determine your
	disk's name and geometry.  Its name will be something like
	"sd0" or "wd0" and the geometry will be printed on a line that
	begins with its name.  As mentioned above, you will need your
	disk's geometry when creating OpenBSD partitions.  You will
	also need to know the device name to tell the install tools
	what disk to install on.

	While booting, you will probably see several warnings.  You
	may be warned that the kernel can't figure out what device
	it booted from and that no swap space is present.  Do not be
	alarmed, these are completely normal.  The first warning
	occurs because while OpenBSD/sparc can boot from the floppy
	drive, the kernel itself lacks a floppy driver for some
        architctures.

	When the loading process is complete, the boot floppy will be
	ejected and you will be prompted to insert a filesystem floppy,
	just hit return since the filesystem is contained in the kernel
	image just loaded.  Next there will be a prompt asking you for
	a shell name, just hit return to start executing the installion
	setup script.

	You will next be asked for your terminal type.  If you are
	installing from a keyboard/monitor console, the default of
	"sun" if correct.  If you are installing from a serial console
	you should choose the terminal type from amongst those listed.
	(If your terminal type is xterm, just use vt100).  Next you
	will be prompted for a choice of which text editor to use at
	several places in the install script.  You will probably want
	to use "vi" if your terminal supports this.

	After entering the terminal type you will be greeted by a
	welcome message and asked if you really want to continue.
	Assuming you answered yes, the install program will then tell
	you which disks of that type it can install on, and ask you
	which it should use.  The name of the disk is typically "sd0".
	Reply with the name of your disk.

	Next you will have to edit or create a disklabel for the disk
	OpenBSD is being installed on.  The installation script will
	invoke the text editor allowing you to do this.  Note that
	partition 'c' inside this disk label should ALWAYS reflect the
	entire disk, including any non-OpenBSD portions.  The root file
	system should be in partition 'a', and swap is usually in partition
	'b'.  It is recommended that you create separate partitions for
	root and /usr, you may also want to specify /var and /home
	partitions.

	The swap partition (usually 'b') should have a type of "swap", all
	other native OpenBSD partitions should have a type of "4.2BSD".
	Block and fragment sizes are usually 8192 and 1024 bytes, but can
	also be 16384 and 2048 bytes.

	The install program will now label your disk and ask which file
	systems should be created on which partitions.  It will auto-
	matically select the 'a' partition to be the root file system.
	Next it will ask for which disk and partition you want a file
	system created on.  This will be the same as the disk name (eg.
	"sd0") with the letter identifying the partition (eg. "d")
	appended (eg. "sd0d").  Then it will ask where this partition is
	to be mounted, eg. /usr.  This process will be repeated until
	you just hit return.

	At this point you will be asked to confirm that the file system
	information you have entered is correct, and given an opportunity
	to change the file system table.  Next it will create the new file
	systems as specified, OVERWRITING ANY EXISTING DATA.  This is the
	point of no return.

	After all your file systems have been created, the install program
	will give you an opportunity to configure the network.  The network
	configuration you enter (if any) can then be used to do the install
	from another system using NFS, HTTP or FTP, and will also be the
	configuration used by the system after the installation is complete.

	If you select to configure the network, the install program will
	ask you for a name of your system and the DNS domain name to use.
	Note that the host name should be without the domain part, and that
	the domain name should NOT include the host name part.

	Next the system will give you a list of network interfaces you can
	configure.  For each network interface you select to configure, it
	will ask for the IP address to use, the symbolic host name to use,
	the netmask to use and any interface-specific flags to set.  The
	interface-specific flags are usually used to determine which media
	the network card is to use.  This is driver dependent, but for the
	sparc le(4) driver, the flags usually carry meaning:

		-link0 -link1	Use existing setting (only setup by netboot)
		link0 -link1	Use UTP (twisted pair) port
		-link0 link1 	Use AUI port

	After all network interfaces have been configured the install pro-
	gram will ask for a default route and IP address of the primary
	name server to use.  You will also be presented with an opportunity
	to edit the host table.

	At this point you will be allowed to edit the file system table
	that will be used for the remainder of the installation and that
	will be used by the finished system, following which the new file
	systems will be mounted to complete the installation.

	After these preparatory steps has been completed, you will be
	able to extract the distribution sets onto your system.  There
	are several install methods supported; FTP, HTTP, tape, CD-ROM, NFS
	or a local disk partition.  To install from a tape, the distrib-
	ution sets must have been written to tape prior to running the
	installation program, either as tar images or as gzipped tar
	images.  Note that installation sets on multiple floppies is not
	currently supported.

	To install via FTP:
		To begin an FTP install you will need the following
		pieces of information.  Don't be daunted by this list;
		the defaults are sufficient for most people.
		    1) Proxy server URL if you are using a URL-based
		       ftp proxy (squid, CERN ftp, Apache 1.2 or higher).
		       You need to define a proxy if you are behind a
		       firewall that blocks outgoing ftp (assuming you
		       have a proxy available to use).
		    2) Do you need to use passive mode ftp?  Most modern
		       ftp servers are capable of dealing with passive
		       ftp connections.  You only need to enable this
		       option if you are behind a firewall that allows
		       outgoing ftp but blocks incoming tcp ports > 1023.
		       If in doubt say yes to this option.
		       Note that you will not be asked about passive
		       ftp if you are using a proxy.
		    3) The IP address (or hostname if you enabled
		       DNS earlier in the install) of an ftp server
		       carrying the OpenBSD 2.1 distribution.
		       If you don't know, just hit return when
		       asked if you want to see a list of such hosts.
		    4) The ftp directory holding the distribution sets.
		       The default value of pub/OpenBSD/2.1/sparc
		       is almost always correct.
		    5) The login and password for the ftp account.
		       The default will be correct unless you are
		       doing non-anonymous ftp.

		For instructions on how to complete the installation via
		ftp, see the section named "Common URL installations" below.

	To install via HTTP:
		To begin an HTTP install you will need the following
		pieces of information:
		    1) Proxy server URL if you are using a URL-based
		       http proxy (squid, CERN ftp, Apache 1.2 or higher).
		       You need to define a proxy if you are behind a
		       firewall that blocks outgoing http connections
		       (assuming you have a proxy available to use).
		    3) The IP address (or hostname if you enabled
		       DNS earlier in the install) of an http server
		       carrying the OpenBSD 2.1 distribution.
		       If you don't know, just hit return when
		       asked if you want to see a list of such hosts.
		    4) The directory holding the distribution sets.
		       There is no standard location for this;
		       You should use the directory specified
		       along with the server in the list of official
		       http mirror sites that you received in step 3.

		For instructions on how to complete the installation via
		http, see the section named "Common URL installations" below.

	To install from tape:
		In order to install from tape, the distribution sets to be
		installed must have been written to tape previously, either
		in tar format or gzip-compressed tar format.

		You will also have to identify the tape device where the
		distribution sets are to be extracted from.  This will
		typically be "nrst0" (no-rewind, raw interface).

		Next you will have to provide the file number of the set
		that is to be extracted.  Note that the file number starts
		at 1, which is the first file written to the tape.

		The install program will not automatically detect whether
		an image has been compressed, so it will ask for that
		information before starting the extraction.

	To install from CD-ROM:
		When installing from a CD-ROM, you will be asked which
		device holds the distribution sets.  This will typically
		be either "cd0" or "acd0".  Next you will be asked which
		partition on the CD-ROM the distribution is to be loaded
		from.  This is normally partition "a".

		Next you will have to identify the file system type that
		has been used to create the distribution on the CD-ROM,
		this can be either FFS or ISO CD9660.  The OpenBSD CD
		distribution uses the CD9660 format.

		You will also have to provide the relative path to the
		directory on the CD which holds the distribution, for the
		sparc this is "2.1/sparc".

		For instructions on how to complete the installation from
		the CD-ROM distribution, see the section named "Common
		file system installations" below.
		
	To install from a NFS mounted directory:
		When installing from a NFS-mounted directory, you must
		have completed network configuration above, and also
		set up the exported file system on the NFS server in
		advance.

		First you must identify the IP address of the NFS server
		to load the distribution from, and the file system the
		server expects you to mount.

		The install program will also ask whether or not TCP
		should be used for transport (the default is UDP).  Note
		that TCP only works with newer NFS servers.

		You will also have to provide the relative path to the
		directory on the file system where the distribution sets
		are located.  Note that this path should not be prefixed
		with a '/'.

		For instructions on how to complete the installation from
		the CD-ROM distribution, see the section named "Common
		file system installations" below.

	To install from a local disk partition:
		When installing from a local disk partition, you will
		first have to identify which disk holds the distribution
		sets.  This is normally "sdN" or "wdN" where N is a
		number 0 through 9.  Next you will have to identify the
		partition within that disk that holds the distribution,
		this is a single letter between 'a' and 'p'.

		You will also have to identify the type of file system
		residing in the partition identified.  Currently, you can
		only install from partitions that use the fast file system
		(ffs).

		You will also have to provide the relative path to the
		directory on the file system where the distribution sets
		are located.  Note that this path should not be prefixed
		with a '/'.

		For instructions on how to complete the installation from
		the a local disk partition, see the next section.
		
	Common file system installations:
		The following instructions are common to installations
		from local disk partitions, NFS mounted directories and
		CD-ROMs.

		A list of available distribution sets will be listed.  If
		any sets has already been extracted, those will be marked
		with an X.  Enter the name of one distribution set at a
		time, until all desired distribution sets has been
		installed on your system.

	Common URL installations:
		Once you have entered the required information, the
		install program will fetch a file list and present
		a list of all the distribution sets that were found
		in the specified directory.  (If no valid sets were found,
		you will be notified and given the option of unpacking
		any gzipped tar files found or getting a file list if
		none were found.)  If any sets have already been extracted,
		those sets will be marked with an X.

		At this point you may individually select distribution
		sets to install or enter "all" to install all of
		the sets (which is what most users will want to do).
		You may also enter "list" to get a file list or
		"done" when you are done selecting distribution sets.
		(It is also possible to enter an arbitrary filename
		and have it treated as a file set).

		Once you have selected the file sets you want to install
		and entered "done" you will be prompted to verify that
		you really do want to download and install the files.
		Assuming you acquiesce, the files will begin to download
		and unpack.  If not, you will be given the option of
		installing sets via one of the other install methods.


	When all the selected distribution sets has been extracted, you
	will be allowed to select which time zone your system will be
	using, all the device nodes needed by the installed system will
	be created for you and the file systems will be unmounted.  For
	this to work properly, it is expected that you have installed
	at least the "base21" and "etc21" distribution sets.



Installing using the old Multi-Floppy procedure.

<floppy boot instructions go here >

If you are upgrading a OpenBSD installation, start the upgrade script:

OpenBSD# sh upgrade.sh

else, start the installation script:

OpenBSD# sh install.sh


These scripts will do most of the work of transferring the system from the
tar files onto your disk. You will frequently be asked for confirmation
before the script proceeds with each phase of the installation process.
Occasionally, you'll have to provide a piece of information such as the
name of the disk you want to install on or IP addresses and domain names
you want to assign. If your system has more than one disk, you may want
to look at the output of the dmesg(8) command to see how your disks
have been identified by the kernel.

The installation script goes through the following phases:

	- determination of the disk to install OpenBSD on
	- checking of the partition information on the disk
	- creating and mounting the OpenBSD filesystems
	- setup of IP configuration
	- extraction of the distribution tar files
	- installation of boot programs


Now try a reboot.  (If needed, swap your scsi id's first).  Initially
I'd suggest you "boot sd()bsd -bs", then try multiuser after that.
if you boot single-user the OpenBSD incantation to make the root
filesystem writable is

    OpenBSD# mount -u /dev/sd0a /

The Sun monitor normally tries to load a file called "vmunix".   
On OpenBOOT ROM systems you can change it to load OpenBSD instead using
the following commands:

On version 1 OpenBOOT ROMs:
    >n
    ok setenv boot-from sd(0,0,0)bsd
    ok

On version 2 OpenBOOT ROMs:
    ok setenv boot-file bsd
    ok setenv boot-device /sbus/esp/sd@0,0

On sun4 systems, you may not need to specify the boot file, as 
the OpenBSD boot blocks will look for "bsd" on the boot device by default.

Congratulations, you have successfully installed OpenBSD 2.1.  When you
reboot into OpenBSD, you should log in as "root" at the login prompt.
There is no initial password, but if you're using the machine in a
networked environment, you should create yourself an account and
protect it and the "root" account with good passwords.

Some of the files in the OpenBSD 2.1 distribution might need to be
tailored for your site.  In particular, the /etc/sendmail.cf file will
almost definitely need to be adjusted, and other files in /etc will
probably need to be modified.  If you will be running your OpenBSD 
system from a serial console, you may need to edit /etc/ttys and
change the terminal type, and getty method from "sun" and "suncons"
to "vt100" and "std.9600" or something similar.  Also when running
from a serial console, you may wish to adjust the eeprom settings
for input-device, output-device, screen-#columns, and screen-#rows
as appropriate.  

If you plan on using the extra serial ports on 4/300 systems, 
you'll need to make sure you have device nodes for them e.g.:
  mknod /dev/ttyc c 12 4
  mknod /dev/ttyd c 12 5
To use these ports for terminals etc, you will want to add them to
/etc/ttys.

In order to use 'tip' on OpenBSD/sparc, you'll need to edit /etc/ttys
and add "local" to the end of the tty configuration line, and run 
'ttyflags -a' to put your changes into effect.

On installing X11 for OpenBSD/sparc, you may wish to add a line similar to
'ldconfig /usr/X11R6/lib' to the end of your /etc/rc.local file.  This will
add the X libraries to your dynamic linking search path at boot time.

If you are unfamiliar with UN*X-like system administration, 
it's recommended that you buy a book that discusses it.



Installing from SunOS.

You need a SunOS machine to install OpenBSD.  You also need at
least the following pieces:

    the *.tar.gz files you want to install (as a minimum, base.tar.gz)
    gunzip (GNU gzip) SunOS binary
    gtar (GNU tar) SunOS binary
    a "/boot" file from a SunOS machine that matches your machine type
	(e.g. sun or sun4c)
    a kernel, most likely "/bsd"

All these pieces, except "/boot" and the GNU utilities are supplied in
the OpenBSD/sparc distribution.

You need to format and partition the disk using SunOS (since
OpenBSD/sparc uses SunOS disk labels.)  Give yourself adequate
partition sizes.  Here is an example layout:

    partition    size   offset	  will be..
    sd2a        28140        0	  /
    sd2b        16170    28140	  swap
    sd2c       204540        0	  `whole disk'
    sd2g       160230    44310	  /usr

BTW, These are not recommended sizes.  They simply match the first
(tiny) disk that OpenBSD/sparc ran on.

Use SunOS to newfs the partitions which will have filesystems on them.
(OpenBSD's filesystem format is identical to SunOS).

    sunos# newfs /dev/rsd2a
    [... lots of output]
    sunos# newfs /dev/rsd2g
    [... lots of output]

NOTE: If you are able to, there is a performance benefit from
newfs'ing using OpenBSD.  If you newfs using the OpenBSD newfs command,
be sure to use the -O flag for your / partition, so that newfs will
use the 4.3BSD filesystem format, rather than the new 4.4BSD filesystem
format.  If you forget, you will not be able to boot -- the SunOS boot
blocks do not understand the extended 4.4BSD filesystem format.

Mount those partitions in a tree formation, under /mnt; ie:

    sunos# df
    Filesystem            kbytes    used   avail capacity  Mounted on
    [...]
    /dev/sd2a              11501       0   11501     0%    /mnt
    /dev/sd2g             179529       0  179529     0%    /mnt/usr

Place a standard SunOS "boot" program in /mnt (your new root
partition), and use the SunOS command "installboot" to make it work.
The installboot man page says to do something like this:

    sunos# cp /usr/mdec/sdboot /mnt/boot
    sunos# sync; sync
    sunos# /usr/mdec/installboot -vlt /mnt/boot /usr/mdec/bootsd /dev/rsd2a

You can now extract the provided "*.tar.gz files onto your disk.

    sunos# ls -FC
    base21.tar.gz      etc21.tar.gz       man21.tar.gz       secr21.tar.gz
    comp21.tar.gz      games21.tar.gz     misc21.tar.gz      text21.tar.gz
    bsd                bsd.scsi3
    sunos# gunzip < base21.tar.gz | (cd /mnt; gtar xvpf -)
    [...] for each set

And finally copy an OpenBSD kernel (either bsd or bsd.scsi3) onto your disk.

    sunos# cp bsd.scsi3 /mnt/bsd

The GNU gunzip and gtar programs are not distributed as part of SunOS,
but may be present in your local/bin.  If not, you will need to obtain
them from a GNU archive and install before proceeding.  The OpenBSD
tar files are in the "new format" that includes directory information,
and the standard SunOS tar will not extract from them successfully.

After the files have been extracted, setup /mnt/etc/fstab to match
your actual disk layout.  (Minus the "/mnt" component of each path, of
course :-)

Now proceed to reboot the machine as described above in "Installing
using a diskless setup".
