The upgrade to NetBSD 1.0 is a binary upgrade; it would be prohibitive
to make users upgrade by compiling and installing the 1.0 sources, and
it would be very difficult to even compile a set of instructions that
allowed them to do so.  

To do the upgrade, you must have at least base.tar.gz on disk and
a copy of the proper netbsd.sdx.yyyy.  It will require quite a bit
of disk space to do the upgrade.

Since upgrading involves replacing the kernel, and most of the system
binaries, it has the potential to cause data loss.  You are strongly
advised to BACK UP ANY IMPORTANT DATA ON YOUR DISK, whether on the
NetBSD partition or on another operating system's partition, before
beginning the upgrade process.

To upgrade your system, follow the following instructions:

	Make sure your are root.  Just in case the new binaries don't
	run with the old kernel, make copies of several key binaries
	from /bin, /sbin and /usr/bin in some directory.  (Things like
	sh, cp, ls, rm, tar, halt, and others.)

	Extract the tar.gz files.  Remember to use the --unlink
	option with tar so it can replace binaries currently in use.
	For example, to extract base.tar.gz:

		cd / 
		tar -xpzf /gz.files/base.tar.gz --unlink

	Extract all the tar.gz files you want.  You should carefully
	work at upgrading /etc.  There may be changes to file formats
	depending on what version of NetBSD/pc532 you are running.

	BE CAREFUL IF YOU ARE RUNNING WITH SECURITY.  The distribution
	binaries don't support it.  It would be reasonable to save a
	copy of master.passwd and remove all passwords until after
	you upgrade to the new security level.

	Place the proper netbsd.sdX.YYYY in / as the file netbsd.

	Reboot.

	After reboot, you should make sure you check your new file systems.
	Also, you may wish to upgrade your file systems to the new file
	system format.  After the install process is complete,
	use "fsck -c 2" to upgrade the file systems. Read the fsck(8)
	manual page for more details.

	If you upgrade your file systems, you will want to make sure
	you have the most recent ufs boot program if you use the
	NetBSD boot program to read the kernel off a ufs file system.
	Use bim(8) to remove your old boot program and install the
	newest one if you are using the autoboot monitor.


