                       Term::ANSIColor version 1.10
              (A simple ANSI text attribute control module)

  Copyright 1996, 1997, 1998, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2005 Russ Allbery
  <rra@stanford.edu> and Zenin.  This program is free software; you may
  redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

  I welcome bug reports and patches for this package at rra@stanford.edu.
  However, please be aware that I tend to be extremely busy and to get a
  lot of mail.  I'll save your mail and get to it as soon as I can, but
  depending on how busy I am it may take me a couple of months.

INTRODUCTION

  This module grew out of a thread on comp.lang.perl.misc where several of
  us were throwing around different ways to print colored text from Perl
  scripts and Zenin posted his old library to do that.  I (Russ) disagreed
  with the implementation and offered my own (the color() and colored()
  functions implemented in this package), Zenin convinced me that the
  constants had their place as well, and we started figuring out the best
  ways of implementing both.

  While ANSI color escape codes are fairly simple, it can be hard to
  remember the codes for all of the attributes and the code resulting from
  hard-coding them into your script is definitely difficult to read.  This
  module is designed to fix those problems, as well as provide a
  convenient interface to do a few things for you automatically (like
  resetting attributes after the text you print out so that you don't
  accidentally leave attributes set).

  Despite its name, this module can also handle non-color ANSI text
  attributes (bold, underline, reverse video, and blink).  It uses either
  of two interfaces, one of which uses "constants" for each different
  attribute and the other of which uses two subs which take strings of
  attributes as arguments.

  The most recent version of this module is available at its web site:

      <http://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/software/ansicolor/>

  See the POD documentation for complete details, features, and usage.

  This module is distributed as part of the Perl core distribution as of
  Perl 5.6.0.  You only need to install this module if you want a newer
  version than came with Perl or if you have an old version of Perl.

INSTALLATION

  Follow the standard installation procedure for Perl modules, which is to
  type the following commands:

      perl Makefile.PL
      make
      make test
      make install

  You'll probably need to do the last as root.  If instead you wish to
  install the module by hand, simply copy it into a directory named Term
  in your Perl library directory.

  Note that make install, for Perl 5.6.0 or later, will replace the
  Term::ANSIColor that came with Perl.  You may wan to save a backup copy
  of the standard version first.

THANKS

  To Jon Lennox for looking at early versions of this module, providing
  feedback, and offering suggestions for improvement.

  To Jesse Taylor for writing the first significant script to use this
  module (colorized calsplit), thus offering innumerable opportunities to
  test and debug.

  To Jean Delvare for providing documentation of what the various
  attributes do on various different terminal emulators, and for noting
  that attribute 2 is dark.

  To Edward Avis for the implementation of uncolor.

  To Rani Pinchuk for the idea of ANSI_COLORS_DISABLED and an initial
  implementation.

  To ATricket for the information about what PuTTY, Windows telnet, and
  OpenSSH under Cygwin support.

  To Richard Maus for pointing out DARK was missing from the exported
  constants list and CYAN and WHITE were missing from the documentation.

  To Autrijus Tang for noticing a problem with string comparisons in the
  test suite.

  To Daniel Lindsley for the information about what Mac OS X Terminal
  supports.

  To Joe Smith for the test files that exercise a wide variety of VT100
  escape sequences including the ECMA-48 color control codes.

  To James Bowlin for catching a bug in colored when $EACHLINE is set that
  caused it to not color lines consisting solely of 0.

  To Larry Wall, as always, for Perl.
