OpenBSDInstallPrelude

The following is a walk-through of the steps necessary to get OpenBSD
installed on your hard disk.  If you wish to stop the installation,
you may hit Control-C at any prompt, but if you do, you'll have to
begin again from scratch.

	First you need to get yourself into OpenBSD.  This can be
	done in a couple ways, both of which currently require
	GEMDOS.

	You can insert the GEMDOS kernel floppy and select
	the loadbsd program. It will ask for parameters, 
	supply: '-b bsd'.  You can, of course, also run it
	from the shell command-line in MiNT:

		loadbsd -b a:/bsd

	You should see the screen clear and some information about
	your system as the kernel configures the hardware.  Then
	you will be prompted for a root device.  At this time remove
	the GEMDOS kernel boot floppy from the drive if present and
	insert the BSD install floppy 1.  Now type `rd0' to tell the
	kernel to load the install filesystem into RAMdisk. While
	While the kernel is loading, it will show a '.' for each
	track loaded. After loading 80 tracks, it will ask you
	to insert the next floppy. At this time, insert the BSD
	install floppy 2 and hit any key. The kernel continuous
	loading another 40 tracks before it continues to boot.

	The system should continue to boot.  For now ignore WARNING:
	messages about bad dates in clocks. Eventually you will be
	be asked to enter the pathname of the shell, just hit
	return.  After a short while you should see a welcome
	message and a prompt, asking if you wish to proceed with the
	installation.

	If you wish to proceed, enter "y" and then return.

	If you have configured your hard drive[s] correctly it
	should find the drive and partition that you selected to
	use as your root.

	YOU ARE NOW AT THE POINT OF NO RETURN.  If you confirm that
	you want to install OpenBSD, your hard drive will be modified,
	and perhaps its contents scrambled at the whim of the install
	program.

	If you are sure you want to proceed, enter "yes" at the
	prompt.

	The install program will now make the root filesystem you
	specified.  There should be only one error in this section
	of the installation.  It will look like so:

		newfs: ioctl (WDINFO): Invalid argument
		newfs: /dev/rsd0a: can't rewrite disk label

	If there are any others, restart from the the beginning of
	the installation process.  This error is ok as the Atari
	does not write disklabels currently.  You should expect
	this error whenever using newfs.

	Next the install program will ask you which drive and
	partition you wish to use as /usr.  First it will list the
	available drives.  Choose one.  Next it will give you a
	list of the partitions on that disk along with their sizes,
	types, etc..  Choose the letter that corresponds to the
	partition you wish to use for /usr.  To be able to make the
	proper selection, you need to know, that OpenBSD assigns a
	special meaning to some of the partition letters:
	    'a' : root filesystem
	    'b' : swap partition
	    'c' : whole disk
	You should choose a letter in the range 'd'-'p' for your
	/usr filesystem.  If you are doing a full install this should
	be a partition that is at least 45M-50M large.  If everything is
	ok the install program will then format and mount your /usr.  If
	not then it will ask again for a drive and partition.

	When this completes your root partition will be mounted on
	/mnt and your /usr partition on /mnt/usr.  An fstab will
	have been created and initialized to correctly mount these
	two file systems.  This fstab will be in /mnt/etc.

	What you do from this point on depends on which media you're
	using to install OpenBSD.  Follow the appropriate instructions,
	given below.

	To install from an GEMDOS partition:

		You first need to mount the GEMDOS partition
		using the mount_msdos command.  If e.g. your GEMDOS
		partition is the first partition on sd0 you could
		type:
			
			mkdir /mnt/gemdos
			mount_msdos /dev/sd0d /mnt/gemdos

		You can use `disklabel sd0' to find out what types
		of partitions are on the disk `sd0'.

		Next goto the directory in which you stored the
		distribution sets.  If e.g. you stored them in the
		root directory of the partition:

			cd /mnt/gemdos

		When there, run "Set_tmp_dir" and choose the default
		temporary directory, by hitting return at the
		prompt.

		Run the "Extract" command, giving it as its sole
		argument the name of the distribution set you wish
		to extract.  For example, to extract the base
		distribution, use the command:

			Extract base20

		and to extract the games distribution:

			Extract game20

		If the distribution sets are in different directories,
		you will need to cd to each directory in turn, running
		"Set_tmp_dir" and the appropriate "Extract" command(s).

		Continue this process until you've finished installing
		all of the sets which you desire to have on your
		hard disk.  Once you have extracted all sets and
		are at the "#" prompt again, proceed to the section
		"Configuring Your System," below.

	To install from tape:

		The first thing you should do is pick a temporary
		directory where the distribution files can be stored.
		To do this, use the command "Set_tmp_dir" and enter
		your choice.  The default is /mnt/usr/distrib.

		After you have picked a temporary directory,
		you should issue the load command:

			Load_tape

		Next, you will be told to insert the media into
		the appropriate drive, and hit return.  Continue
		to follow instructions until you are returned to
		the "#" prompt.

		Go to the directory which contains the first
		distribution set you wish to install.  This is
		either the directory you specified above, or possibly
		a subdirectory of that directory.

		When there, run "Set_tmp_dir" again, and choose
		the default temporary directory, by hitting
		return at the prompt.

		Run the "Extract" command, giving it as its sole
		argument the name of the distribution set you
		wish to extract.  For example, to extract the base
		distribution, use the command:

			Extract base20

		and to extract the games distribution:

			Extract game20

		After the extraction is complete, go to the location
		of the next set you want to extract, "Set_tmp_dir"
		again, and once again issue the appropriate
		extract command.  Continue this process until
		you've finished installing all of the sets which you
		desire to have on your hard disk.

		After each set is finished, if you know that you
		are running low on space you can remove the
		distribution files for that set by saying:

			rm set_name.??

		For example, if you wish to remove the distribution
		files for the game09 set, after the "Extract game09"
		command has completed, issue the command:

			rm game20.??

		Once you have extracted all sets and are at the "#" prompt
		again, proceed to the section "Configuring Your System,"
		below.

Configuring Your System:
----------- ---- ------

Once you have finished extracting all of the distribution sets that
you want on your hard drive and are back at the "#" prompt,
you are ready to configure your system.

The configuration utility expects that you have installed the base
system.  If you have not, you will not be able to run it successfully
(nor will you have a functional system regardless of configuration).

To configure the newly installed operating system, run the
command "Configure".

Configure will ask for the machine's hostname, domain name, and other
network configuration information.

Once you have supplied `Configure' all that it requests, your machine
will be configured well enough that when you reboot it it will
almost be a completely functional OpenBSD system.  Note you should
ignore the errors from `chown' they will be corrected shortly.

Once you are done with `Configure', halt the system with the "halt"
command (wait for "halted" to be displayed) and reboot.  Then again
boot OpenBSD this time with the command:

	loadbsd bsd

You need to do your final tweaks now.  First mount your file systems
like so:

	mount -av

Next you need to re-make your devices to get the ownership correct:

	cd /dev
	./MAKEDEV all

Your system is now complete but not completely configured; you
should adjust the /etc/sendmail.cf file as necessary to suit your
site and/or disable sendmail and other network related programs.
These things can be found in /etc/netstart.  Use vi, if you installed
the man pages you can type `man vi' or `man ed' for instructions
on how to use these somewhat non-intuitive editors.

As mentioned at the end of the `Configure' run, you should copy the
OpenBSD kernel onto the root partition as "/bsd". There is also
another option to this. As OpenBSD/Atari has to be booted from TOS,
you could do the following:
	Reserve a small GEMDOS partition of about 4Mb. This is
	enough to put in a few kernels. Put the bsd kernel
	into this partition. Also, edit your /etc/fstab to always
	mount this partition, say as /kernels. Now make a symlink
	from /bsd to /kernels/bsd.
	This scheme is particularly handy when you want to make your
	own kernel. When compilation is finished, you just copy
	your kernel to /kernels/bsd and reboot. It's wise to
	make sure there is _always_ a 'know to work' kernel image
	present.

To get the proper timezone settings, link /etc/localtime to the
appropriate file in /usr/share/zoneinfo. The link provided is to
/usr/share/zoneinfo/US/Pacific.

Once you are done with the rest of configuration unmount your file
systems and halt your system, then reboot:

	cd /
	umount -av
	halt
	<reboot>

Finally you can now boot your system and it will be completely
functional:

	loadbsd -a bsd

When it boots off the hard drive, you will have a complete
OpenBSD system!  CONGRATULATIONS! (You really deserve them!!!)
