Note you will be modifying your HD's if you mess something up here you
could lose everything on all the drives that you mess with.  It is
therefore advised that you:

	Write down your current configurations.  Do this
	by writing down all partition info (especially their sizes).

	Back up the partitions you are keeping.

What you need to do is partition your drives; creating
space for at least root, swap and /usr partitions and possibly at
least one more for /local if you have the space.

The partitioning can be done in two ways, the first method heavily
relies on the AHDI way of partitioning, the second method nearly
ignores the AHDI partitioning and gives you far more flexibility.
Currently, the second method can only be achieved from a working
NetBSD/atari system.  How this should be done is described in
"upgrading to NetBSD-labeling".

Using AHDI partitioning:
	The paritioning can be done with the AHDI-disk that is
	provided with your TT or Falcon. Note that the AHDI partioning
	function erases all partions on your harddisk even if they are
	not changed!
	I know this is rather stupid, but don't say I didn't warn you.

	You will need the 'chg_part' program from the bootdisk to
	prepare your harddisk a bit more. This program will change the
	partition-id so NetBSD knows which partitions it can use. The
	synopsis is:
		chg_part <driveno> <partno> <new_id>

	The drive number corresponds with the drive's SCSI-id. The new
	id can be selected from one of the following acronyms:
		NBU - NetBSD User partition
		NBR - NetBSD Root partition
		NBS - NetBSD Swap partition
	Because NetBSD cannot be bootloaded (yet) and thus must be
	loaded through GEM, it is unwise to use drive 'C'
	(drive 0/partition 1) as a NetBSD partition. When a partition-id
	is changed, GEMDOS won't be able to recognize your drive, so be
	warned that the drive labels are shifted afterwards. The chg_part
	program still recognizes them, take this into account when
	re-labeling partitions. Also note that the chg_part process is
	reversible. So don't panic if you made a mistake. Just run
	chg_part again with the same drive/partition arguments but
	supplied the original partition id.

Upgrading to NetBSD-labeling:
	First of all the new disk label functions are fully backwards
	compatible with the current (old) behaviour, therefore you don't
	have to rename partition identifiers if you don't want to. The only
	limitation is that you won't be able to write a disklabel to your
	harddisk ("Device not configured.").

	If you'ld like to have the flexibility of the NetBSD disk label,
	the procedure is very simple: change the identifier of the AHDI
	partition that contains your NetBSD root filesystem from NBR to NBD.
	Boot NetBSD; run `disklabel -e sd?'; disklabel will start vi;
	quit vi without changing anything; now the disklabel should be
	written to the NBD partition. If at this point disklabel tells
	you that one or more of your partitions extend past the end of
	the unit, then you have an old version of disklabel. Get the

	If you like, you can now change the NBD partition id to RAW
	(this would for example be necessary if the partition must be
	shared with MiNT), but keep in mind that the partition id must
	be either NBD or RAW, otherwise NetBSD won't be able to find the
	disklabel. The NBS id (used for a swap partition) is no longer
	needed, you can change it to whatever you like (or leave it as
	is, if that's what you like :-) ). The same is true for the
	NBU id's.

	WARNINGS:
		- the NBD partition does not necessarily have to be the
		  partition that contains the NetBSD root filesystem, but
		  it *must* be a partition that contains a fast filesystem.
		  Do *not* try this with a partition that contains a gemdos,
		  minix or ext2 filesystem; if you do, you'll *loose* a
		  filesystem.
		- Now that you have a real disklabel, you can modify it in
		  (almost) any way you want. However, if you make a mess of
		  the disk label, NetBSD may (or may not) make a mess of
		  your disk! No freedom without responsibility.
		  NetBSD will try to warn you for a possibly dangerous
		  partition table, but it's up to you to either take that
		  warning serious or ignore it (there may be good reasons
		  to ignore the warning, if you know what you're doing).

	So what do you do if you have a new disk, that will be exclusively
	used by NetBSD? Very simple: don't let it get `infected' by the
	AHDI `virus'. ,-) Just connect the disk to your TT/Falcon; boot
	NetBSD; run `disklabel -e'; you'll see only one large partiton `d'
	(there won't be any filesytem on it yet); you can create partitions
	in any way you want, as you're no longer limited by an AHDI partition
	table.
