Installation is supported from several media types, including:
	TOS HD partitions
	Tape

No matter what you do, however, you'll need to have three disks handy,
on which you will put the install and boot floppy images.

All the images are available from the directory "atari/floppies",
under the root of the OpenBSD tree at your favorite archive site.

If you are using OpenBSD/atari to make the floppies, you should use
the command dd(1) to write the raw floppy images (.fs files) to
the disk. To write onto fd0 use:

	dd if=inst-10.fs.1 of=/dev/rfd0b bs=9b

If you are using TOS to make the floppies, grab the 'rawrite' utility
from the "OSREV/tools" directory and issue the command:
	rawrite boot-10.fs

This will create the boot-floppy on the floppy in drive a. The floppies
should be pre-formatted on 720Kb for both the 'dd' and 'rawrite' commands
to work. Pre-formatting can be best done using the desktop format command.
Some other utilities seem to be giving problems.

The steps necessary to prepare the distribution sets
for installation depend on which method of installation
you choose.  The various methods are explained below.

To prepare for installing via an GEMDOS partition:

	To install OpenBSD from an GEMDOS partition, you need to
	get the OpenBSD distribution sets you wish to install
	on your system on to an GEMDOS partition.  All of the
	set_name.xx pieces can be placed in a single directory
	instead of separate ones for each distribution set.  This
	will also simplify the installation work later on.

	Note where you place the files you will need this later.

	Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next
	step in the installation process, preparing your hard disk.

To prepare for installing via a tape:

	To install OpenBSD from a tape, you need to somehow
	get the OpenBSD filesets you wish to install on
	your system on to the appropriate kind of tape,
	in tar format.

	If you're making the tape on a UN*X system, the easiest
	way to do so is:

		tar cvf <tape_device> <files>

	where "<tape_device>" is the name of the tape device
	that describes the tape drive you're using (possibly
	something like /dev/nrst0, but we make no guarantees 8-).
	If you can't figure it out, ask your system administrator.
	"<files>" are the names of the "set_name.nnn" files
	which you want to be placed on the tape.

	Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next
	step in the installation process, preparing your hard disk.
