The amiga-specific portion of the NetBSD 1.1 release is found in the
"amiga" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is layed
out as follows:

.../NetBSD-1.1/amiga/
			binary/		amiga binary distribution sets;
					see below.

			miniroot/	amiga installation and upgrade
					file system images; see below.

			security/	amiga security distribution;
					see below;

			utils/		Miscellaneous amiga
					installation utilities; see
					installation section, below.

There are two amiga file system images to be found in the "amiga/miniroot"
subdirectory of the NetBSD 1.1 distribution.  One of them is a upgrade
image and one is an installation image. They are described in more
detail below.  There are gzipped versions of each available, for easier
downloading.  (The gzipped version have the ".gz" extension added to
their names.)

Installation file system:

	This file contains a BSD root file system setup to help
	you install the rest of NetBSD.  This includes formatting
	and mounting your root and /usr partitions and getting
	ready to extract (and possibly first fetching) the distribution
	sets.  There is enough on this file system to allow you to
	make a slip or ppp connection, configure an ethernet, mount an
	NFS file system or ftp.  You can also load distribution sets from
	a SCSI tape or from one of your existing AmigaDOS partitions.

	This file is named "inst-11.fs".


Upgrade file system:

	This file contains a BSD root file system setup to help
	you upgrade a previous version of NetBSD.  This includes
	converting existing partitions and mounting your root and
	/usr partitions and getting ready to extract (and possibly
	first fetching) the distribution sets.  There is enough on
	this file system to allow you to make a slip or ppp connection,
	configure an ethernet, mount an NFS file system or ftp.
	You can also load distribution sets from a SCSI tape, from
	one of your existing AmigaDOS partitions, or from an existing
	NetBSD partition.

	This file is named "upgr-11.fs".

The NetBSD/amiga binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the NetBSD 1.1 release for the amiga.  There are seven binary
distribution sets, and the "security" distribution set.  The binary
distribution sets can be found in subdirectories of the "amiga/binary"
subdirectory of the NetBSD 1.1 distribution tree, and are as follows:

	base11	The NetBSD/amiga 1.1 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base NetBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 7M gzipped, 20M uncompressed ]

	comp11	The NetBSD/amiga Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN (yes, there are two!).
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 5M gzipped, 15M uncompressed ]

	etc11	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 60K gzipped, 340K uncompressed ]

	games11	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 3M gzipped, 7M uncompressed ]

	man11	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 850K gzipped, 3M uncompressed ]

	misc11	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 2M gzipped, 7M uncompressed ]

	text11	This set includes NetBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 784K gzipped, 3M uncompressed ]

The amiga security distribution set is named "secr11" and can be found
in the "amiga/security" subdirectory of the NetBSD 1.1 distribution
tree.  It contains crypt.c (the source file for the DES encryption
algorithm) and the binaries which depend on it.  It can only be found
on those sites which carry the complete NetBSD distribution and that
can legally obtain it.  (Remember, because of United States law, this
distribution set may not be exported to locations outside of the
United States and Canada.)  [ 128K gzipped, 307K uncompressed ]

The amiga binary distribution sets are distributed in the same form as
the source distribution sets; catted together, the members of a set
form a gzipped tar file.  Each amiga binary distribution set also has
its own "CKSUMS" file, just as the source distribution sets do.

The instructions given for extracting the source sets work equally
well for the binary sets, but it is worth noting that if you use that
method, the files are extracted "below" the current directory.  That
is, if you want to extract the binaries "into" your system, i.e.
replace the system binaries with them, you have to run the "tar xvfp"
from /.  Also note that if you upgrade or install this way, those
programs that you are using at the time will NOT be replaced.  If you
follow the normal installation or upgrade procedures, this will be
taken care of for you.
