You will need an AmigaDOS hard drive prep tool to prepare you hard
drives for use with OpenBSD/amiga.  HDToolBox is provided with the
system software and on floppy installation disks since Release 2.0
of AmigaDOS so we will provide instructions for its use.

Preparing you hard disk with HDToolBox:

	A full explanation of HDToolBox can be found with your
	AmigaDOS manuals and is beyond the scope of this document.

	Note you will be modifying your HD's if you mess something 
	up here you could lose everything on all the drives that 
	you configure.  It is therefore advised that you:

		Write down your current configurations.  Do this
		by examining each partition on the drive and the
		drives parameters (from Change drive type.)

		Back up the partitions you are keeping.

	What you need to do is partition your drives; creating at least
	root, swap and /usr partitions and possibly some more for
	/tmp, /var, /home or others of your own choice.  (The root and
	swap partitions must be on the same drive for your initial
	installation. You can use other configurations after building a
	customized kernel once your system is running.)  Partitioning is
	traditionally an area of great confusion and disagreement, and
	religion plays a large role in most advice you'll get.  The
	author of this paragraph is a fan of large and few partitions,
	normally one per disk, unless it's the root disk, where I tend
	to have /, swap, /tmp, /var & /usr.  I must admit that I step
	aside from my normal rules of thumb very often due to the context
	the machine will work in.

	This should be done as the HDToolBox manual describes.  One thing
	to note is that if you are not using a Commodore controller you
	will need to specify the device your SCSI controller uses e.g.
	if you have a Warp Engine you would:

		from cli,
			hdtoolbox warpdrive.device

		from wb set the tooltype,
			SCSI_DEVICE_NAME=warpdrive.device

	The important things you need to do above and beyond normal
	partitioning includes (from Partition Drive section):

		Marking all OpenBSD partitions as non-bootable.

		Changing the file system parameters of the partitions
		to OpenBSD ones.  This must be done from the
		partitioning section and `Advanced options' must
		be enabled.  To Make the needed changes:

		- Click the `Adv. Options' button
		- Click the `Change filesystem' button

		- Choose `Custom File System'
		- Turn off `Automount' if on.
		- Set the dostype to one of these three choices:

			root partition  : 0x4e425207
			swap partition  : 0x4e425301
			other partitions: 0x4e425507

		Here `other' refers to other partitions you will
		format for reading and writing under OpenBSD (e.g.
		/usr)

		Make sure you hit the return key to enter this value
		as some versions of HDToolBox will forget your entry
		if you don't.

		- Turn custom boot code off
		- Set Reserved Blocks start and end to 0.
		- Click Ok.

		Mask and maxtransfer are not used with OpenBSD.

		Until you compile your own kernel your swap partition
		must exist on the drive that also holds your root
		partition.

	
	Once this is done OpenBSD/amiga will be able to recognize your
	disks and which partitions it should use.

Choosing installation root filesystem type:

	The OpenBSD/amiga operating system can be installed using two
	different root filesystems: ramdisk or miniroot.  The ramdisk
	is strongly recommended as it requires less preparation work.
	However the ramdisk kernel requires that your system has at
	least 6MB of fastmem.  The miniroot requires less (installs on
	a 4MB system should be possible) and has tools to make SLIP or
	PPP connections, which the ramdisk doesn't, however you need
	to be an experienced user to make use of these as the install
	scripts doesn't deal with them.  Furthermore the miniroot
	install requires you to do the preparation described in the
	following paragraph.  To use the ramdisk install you should get
	the bsd.rd kernel as well as the standard bsd one, and *do*
	skip the next section!

Transferring the miniroot filesystem:

	The OpenBSD/amiga installation or upgrade can use a "miniroot"
	filesystem which is installed on the partition used by OpenBSD
	for swapping.

	Once the hard disk has been prepared for OpenBSD, the miniroot
	filesystem (miniroot23.fs) is transferred to the swap partition
	configured during the hard disk prep (or the existing swap
	partition in the case of an upgrade).  The xstreamtodev utility
	provided in the "amiga/utilities" directory can be used on
	AmigaDOS to transfer the filesystem for either a new installation
	or an upgrade.  The filesystem can also be transferred on an
	existing OpenBSD (or NetBSD) system for an update by using dd.
	This should only be done after booting the former OS into single-
	user state.  It may also be possible to shutdown to single-user,
	providing that the single-user state processes are not using the
	swap partition.

	On AmigaDOS, the command:
		xstreamtodev --input=miniroot23.fs --rdb-name=<swap partition>
	where <swap partition> is the name you gave to the OpenBSD
	partition to be used for swapping.  If xstreamtodev is unable to
	determine the SCSI driver device name or the unit number of the
	specified partition, you may also need to include the option
	"--device=<driver.name>" and/or "--unit=<SCSI unit number>".

	To transfer the miniroot using an older BSD, you should be booted
	up in single user state on the current system, or use the
	"shutdown now" command to shutdown to single-user state.  Then
	copy the miniroot using dd:
		dd if=miniroot23.fs of=/dev/rsdXb
	where /dev/rsdXb should be the device path of the swap partition
	your system is configured to use.  Once the file is copied,
	reboot back to AmigaDOS to boot the new OpenBSD kernel.  NOTE:
	the release kernel is a "generic" kernel, and requires that the
	swap partition be on the same device as the root partition.
