The upgrade to NetBSD 1.1 is a binary upgrade; it would be prohibitive
to make users upgrade by compiling and installing the 1.1 sources, and
it would be very difficult to even compile a set of instructions that
allowed them to do so.  Because of the various changes to the system,
the largest being the 64-bit file size support and shared libraries,
it is impractical to upgrade by recompiling from the sources and
installing.

To do the upgrade, you must have the NetBSD kernel on AmigaDOS and
you must transfer the upgrade filesystem upgr-11.fs onto the swap
partition of the NetBSD hard disk.  You must also have at least the
"base11" binary distribution set available, so that you can upgrade
with it, using one of the upgrade methods described above.  Finally,
you must have sufficient disk space available to install the new
binaries.  Since the old binaries are being overwritten in place,
you only need space for the new binaries, which weren't previously
on the system.  If you have a few megabytes free on each of your
root and /usr partitions, you should have enough space.

Since upgrading involves replacing the kernel, and most of the system
binaries, it has the potential to cause data loss.  You are strongly
advised to BACK UP ANY IMPORTANT DATA ON YOUR DISK, whether on the
NetBSD partition or on another operating system's partition, before
beginning the upgrade process.

To upgrade your system, follow the following instructions:

	Transfer the upgrade miniroot filesystem onto the hard disk
	partition used by NetBSD for swapping, as described in the
	"Preparing your System for NetBSD Installation" section above.

	Now boot up NetBSD using the 1.1 kernel using the loadbsd
	command:

		loadbsd -b netbsd

	You should see the screen clear and some information about
	your system as the kernel configures the hardware.  Note which
	hard disk device is configured that contains your root and
	swap partition.  When prompted for the root device, type
	'sd0*' (replacing 0 with the disk number that NetBSD used for
	your root/swap device).  The '*' character indicates that the
	root filesystem is contained on the swap partition.
	When you reach the prompt asking you for a shell name, just
	hit return.

	You will be presented with some information about the upgrade
	process and a warning message, and will be asked if you wish
	to proceed with the upgrade process.  If you answer
	negatively, the upgrade process will stop, and your disk will
	not be modified.  If you answer affirmatively, the upgrade
	process will begin, and your disk will be modified.  You may
	hit Control-C to stop the upgrade process at any time.
	However, if you hit it at an inopportune moment, your system
	may be left in an inconsistent (and possibly unusable) state.

	You will be asked if you wish to upgrade your file systems to
	the new file system format.  If you do, reply affirmatively.
	If you don't have your file systems upgraded now, you should
	probably do it manually after the install process is complete,
	by using "fsck -c 2". Read the fsck(8) manual page for more
	details.

	The upgrade program will then check your root file system,
	and, if you approved, will upgrade it to the new file system
	format.  It will then mount your root file system on /mnt.

	If your file systems are being upgraded, the upgrade script
	will copy the new fsck(8) program to your hard disk and
	upgrade your remaining file systems.

	The upgrade program will then mount all of your file systems
	under /mnt.  (In other words, your root partition will be
	mounted on /mnt, your /usr partition on /mnt/usr, etc.)

	If you don't already have the NetBSD distribution sets on your
	disk, look in the installation section for information on how
	to transfer them to your disk.

	Once the distribution sets are transferred to your disk,
	continue here.  (Obviously, if the NetBSD distribution sets
	are already on your disk, because you've transferred them
	before starting the upgrade process, you don't need to
	transfer them again now!)

	After the software has been transferred to the machine (or
	mounted, in the case of upgrading via NFS), change into the
	directory containing the "base11" distribution set.  Once you
	are there, run the "Set_tmp_dir" command, and hit return at
	the prompt to select the default answer for the temporary
	directory's path name.  (It should be the path name of the
	directory that you're in.)

	Run the command "Extract base11" to upgrade the base
	distribution.

	Repeat the above two steps for all of the sets you wish to
	upgrade.  (For each, change into the directory containing the
	set, run "Set_tmp_dir" and accept the default path name, then
	run the "Extract <setname>" command.)

	If you were previously using the security distribution set,
	you MUST upgrade to the new version, or you will not be able
	to log in when the upgrade process is complete.  Similarly, if
	you were not previously using the security set, you must NOT
	upgrade to the new version.

	When you are done upgrading all of the distribution sets you
	wish to upgrade, issue the command "Cleanup".  It will clean
	up the installation, by remaking some system databases.  When
	it is complete, you should use "halt" to halt the system.

	You will probably also want to copy the release "netbsd" kernel
	image to your root at some point.
	
Your system has now been upgraded to NetBSD 1.1.

After a new kernel has been copied to your hard disk, your
	machine is a complete NetBSD 1.1 system.  However, that
	doesn't mean that you're finished with the upgrade process.
	There are several things that you should do, or might have to
	do, to insure that the system works properly.

	First, if you did not upgrade your file systems to the new
	file system format during the upgrade process, you may want to
	do so now, with "fsck -c 2".  If you are unsure about the
	process, it's suggested that you read the fsck(8) manual page.

	Second, you will probably want to get the etc11 distribution,
	extract it, and compare its contents with those in your /etc/
	directory.  You will probably want to replace some of your
	system configuration files, or incorporate some of the changes
	in the new versions into yours.

	Third, you will probably want to update the set of device
	nodes you have in /dev.  If you've changed the contents of
	/dev by hand, you will need to be careful about this, but if
	not, you can just cd into /dev, and run the command "sh
	MAKEDEV all".

	Fourth, you must deal with certain changes in the formats of
	some of the configuration files.  The most notable change is
	that the "options" given to many of the file systems in
	/etc/fstab or by hand have changed, and some of the file
	systems have changed names.  To find out what the new options
	are, it's suggested that you read the manual page for the
	file systems' mount commands, for example mount_nfs(8) for
	NFS.  (Note that the information for mounts of type "ufs",
	i.e. Fast File Systems, are contained in the mount(8) man
	page.)

	Finally, you will want to delete old binaries that were part
	of the version of NetBSD that you upgraded from and have since
	been removed from the NetBSD distribution.  You might also
	want to recompile any locally-built binaries, to take
	advantage of the shared libraries.  (Note that any new
	binaries that you build will be dynamically linked, and
	therefore take advantage of the shared libraries, by default.
	For information on how to make statically linked binaries,
	see the cc(1) and ld(1) manual pages.)
