Installation is supported from several media types, including:
	AmigaDOS HD partitions
	Tape
	NFS partitions
	FTP
	NetBSD partitions, if doing an upgrade.

>>> Transfering install/upgrade file system image to swap partition
No matter what you do, however, you'll need to have one disk handy,
on which you will put the install floppy image.

All the images are available from the directory "amiga/floppies",
>>>                                                    ^^^^^^^^
under the root of the NetBSD tree at your favorite archive site.

If you are using NetBSD/amiga to make the floppies, you should use
the command dd(1) to write the raw floppy images (.fs files) to
the disk. To write onto fd0 use:

	dd if=inst-11.fs of=/dev/rfd0a bs=11b

If you are using AmigaDOS to make the floppies, you should
use the rawwrite utility, provided in the directory
"amiga/utilities" in the distribution.  To write the image to
the floppy in df0 use (from cli):

	rawwrite 0 inst-11.fs
>>> fix above to document file system transfer to swap paritition
>>> using xstreamtodev

The steps necessary to prepare the distribution sets
for installation depend on which method of installation
you choose.  The various methods are explained below.

To prepare for installing via an AmigaDOS partition:

	To install NetBSD from an AmigaDOS partition, you need to
	get the NetBSD distribution sets you wish to install
	on your system on to an AmigaDOS partition.  All of the
	set_name.xx pieces can be placed in a single directory
	instead of separate ones for each distribution set.  This
	will also simplify the installation work later on.

	Note where you place the files you will need this later.

	Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next
	step in the installation process, preparing your hard disk.

To prepare for installing via a tape:

	To install NetBSD from a tape, you need to somehow
	get the NetBSD filesets you wish to install on
	your system on to the appropriate kind of tape,
	in tar format.

	If you're making the tape on a UN*X system, the easiest
	way to do so is:

		tar cvf <tape_device> <files>

	where "<tape_device>" is the name of the tape device
	that describes the tape drive you're using (possibly
	something like /dev/nrst0, but we make no guarantees 8-).
	If you can't figure it out, ask your system administrator.
	"<files>" are the names of the "set_name.nnn" files
	which you want to be placed on the tape.

	Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next
	step in the installation process, preparing your hard disk.

To prepare for installing via an NFS partition:

	NOTE: this method of installation is recommended
	      only for those already familiar with using
	      the BSD network-manipulation commands and
	      interfaces.  If you aren't, this documentation
	      should help, but is not intended to be
	      all-encompassing.

	Place the NetBSD software you wish to install into
	a directory on an NFS server, and make that directory
	mountable by the machine which you will be installing
	NetBSD on.  This will probably require modifying the
	/etc/exports file of the NFS server and resetting
	mountd, acts which will require superuser privileges.
	Note the numeric IP address of the NFS server and of
	the router closest to the the new NetBSD machine,
	if the NFS server is not on a network which is
	directly attached to the NetBSD machine.

	Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next
	step in the installation process, preparing your hard disk.

To prepare for installing via FTP:

	NOTE: this method of installation is recommended
	      only for those already familiar with using
	      the BSD network-manipulation commands and
	      interfaces.  If you aren't, this documentation
	      should help, but is not intended to be
	      all-encompassing.

	The preparations for this method of installation
	are easy: all you have to do is make sure that
	there's some FTP site from which you can retrieve
	the NetBSD installation when it's time to do
	the install.  You should know the numeric IP
	address of that site, the numeric IP address of
	your nearest router if one is necessary

	Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next
	step in the installation process, preparing your hard disk.

If you are upgrading NetBSD, you also have the option of installing
NetBSD by putting the new distribution sets somewhere in your existing
file system, and using them from there.  To do that, you must do the
following:

	Place the distribution sets you wish to upgrade somewhere in
	your current file system tree.  At a bare minimum, you must
	upgrade the "base" binary distribution, and so must put the
	"base11" set somewhere in your file system.  If you wish,
	you can do the other sets, as well, but you should NOT upgrade
	the "etc" distribution; the "etc" distribution contains system
	configuration files that you should review and update by hand.

	Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next step in
	the upgrade process, actually upgrading your system.
