The pmax-specific portion of the OpenBSD 2.1 release is found in the
"pmax" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../2.1/pmax/
		INSTALL.pmax	Installation notes; this file.

		*.gz		pmax binary distribution sets;
				see below.

		simpleroot*	pmax boot and installation
				simpleroot files; see below.

There is a pmax simpleroot image named simpleroot21.fs (it is usually
compressed using gzip - simpleroot21.fs.gz - so you need gunzip first
to uncompress it) subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.1 distribution.  This
file you can dump onto a disk and boot from it to start the installation
of OpenBSD/pmax. Also there is a simpleroot21.tar.gz file there.  It
can be used as root area on the NFS server if you plan to install via
network.

The OpenBSD/pmax binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the OpenBSD 2.1 release for the pmax.  There are seven binary
distribution sets.  The binary distribution sets can be found in
subdirectories of the "pmax/bins" subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.1
distribution tree, and are as follows:

	base21	The OpenBSD/pmax 2.1 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base OpenBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 15.0M gzipped, 50.8M uncompressed ]

	comp21	The OpenBSD/pmax Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN (yes, there are two!).
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 16.2M gzipped, 61.1M uncompressed ]

	etc21	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 93K gzipped, 450K uncompressed ]

	game21	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.9M gzipped, 7.5M uncompressed ]

	man21	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 2.5M gzipped, 9.4M uncompressed ]

	misc21	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.8M gzipped, 6.2M uncompressed ]

	text21	This set includes OpenBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 1.0M gzipped, 4.2M uncompressed ]

The pmax binary distribution sets are distributed in the same form as
the source distribution sets; catted together, the members of a set
form a gzipped tar file.  Each pmax binary distribution set also has
its own "CKSUMS" file, just as the source distribution sets do.

The instructions given for extracting the source sets work equally
well for the binary sets, but it is worth noting that if you use that
method, the files are extracted "below" the current directory.  That
is, if you want to extract the binaries "into" your system, i.e.
replace the system binaries with them, you have to run the "tar xfp"
from /.  Also note that if you upgrade or install this way, those
programs that you are using at the time will NOT be replaced.  If you
follow the normal installation or upgrade procedures, this will be
taken care of for you.
