The hp300-specific portion of the NetBSD 1.1 release is found in the
"hp300" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../NetBSD-1.1/hp300/
			binary/		hp300 binary distribution sets;
					see below.

			install/	a GENERIC kernel, installation
					utilities and a miniroot filesystem;
					see below.

			security/	hp300 security distribution;
					see below.

The NetBSD/hp300 binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the NetBSD 1.1 release for the hp300.  There are seven binary
distribution sets, and the "security" distribution set.  The binary
distribution sets can be found in the "hp300/binary" subdirectory of
the NetBSD 1.1 distribution tree, and are as follows:

	base11	The NetBSD/hp300 1.1 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base NetBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 7.2M gzipped, 19M uncompressed ]

	comp11	The NetBSD/hp300 Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C and C++.  This set includes the system
		include files (/usr/include), the linker, the compiler
		tool chain, and the various system libraries (except
		the shared libraries, which are included as part of the
		base set).  This set also includes the manual pages for
		all of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 4.6M gzipped, 14.7M uncompressed ]

	etc11	This distribution set contains the system configuration
		files that reside in /etc and in several other places.
		This set MUST be installed if you are installing the
		system from scratch, but should NOT be used if you are
		upgrading.  (If you are upgrading, it's recommended that
		you get a copy of this set and CAREFULLY upgrade your
		configuration files by hand.)
		[ 64K gzipped, 348K uncompressed ]

	games11	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.8M gzipped, 6.8M uncompressed ]

	man11	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 850K gzipped, 3.3M uncompressed ]

	misc11	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.8M gzipped, 6.5M uncompressed ]

	text11	This set includes NetBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 770K gzipped, 2.8M uncompressed ]

The hp300 security distribution set is named "secr11" and can be found
in the "hp300/security" subdirectory of the NetBSD 1.1 distribution
tree.  It contains crypt.c (the source file for the DES encryption
algorithm) and the binaries which depend on it.  It can only be found
on those sites which carry the complete NetBSD distribution and that
can legally obtain it.  (Remember, because of United States law, this
distribution set may not be exported to locations outside of the
United States and Canada.)  [ XXXK gzipped, XXXK uncompressed ]

The hp300 binary distribution sets are distributed as gzipped tar files.
Each hp300 binary distribution set also has its own "CKSUMS" file, just
as the source distribution sets do.

The following are included in the `.../install' directory:

	SYS_INST.gz	A gzipped copy of the SYS_INST miniroot
			installation program.

	inst-11.fs.gz	A gzipped copy of the miniroot filesystem.

	netbsd.gz	A gzipped GENERIC kernel.

	rbootd.tar.gz	Source code for the rbootd(8) program, required
			for netbooting an HP workstation.

	HP-IB.geometry	A file containing geometry for some HP-IB
			disk drives.

The instructions given for extracting the source sets work equally
well for the binary sets, but it is worth noting that if you use that
method, the files are extracted "below" the current directory.  That
is, if you want to extract the binaries "into" your system, i.e.
replace the system binaries with them, you have to run the "tar xvfp"
from /.  Also note that if you upgrade or install this way, those
programs that you are using at the time will NOT be replaced.  If you
follow the normal installation or upgrade procedures, this will be
taken care of for you.
