OpenBSDInstallPrelude
dnl No extra line, this has to stick to the geometry notes paragraph.
The file `HP-IB.geometry' has geometry information for several HP-IB
disks, but may be incomplete.  Geometry may be calculated from an HP-UX 
`/etc/disktab' entry, but note that HP-UX geometry is based on
1024 byte sectors, while OpenBSD's is based on 512 byte sectors.

The ramdisk kernel may be loaded from the network, from CD-ROM, or other
SCSI devices (such as Zip(tm) disk).  Note that loading from HPIB or SCSI
cartridge tape is possible, but not currently supported.


Booting from CD-ROM installation media:

You can burn a bootable CD-ROM and boot from it.
To boot from SCSI CD-ROM, simply insert the CD into the drive before power
up, then during the computer's self-test cycle, press the space bar.
Shortly, you should see a menu of possible boot options appear.  Select
the option corresponding to SYS_CDBOOT.
SYS_CDBOOT will then load and begin loading bsd.rd from the CD; depending
on your ROM revision and hardware configuration, you may or may not see
any messages on the console while this happens.

Please note that booting from CD-ROM may not be supported by all models of
MACHINE.  You will also need a CD-ROM drive which uses 512 byte blocks;
anything which shipped with an MACHINE or is known to boot a SPARC or black
NeXTStation should work.  Modern CD-ROM drives jumpered to use 512-byte
blocks should work as well.


Booting from Network:

Note:  Booting SYS_UBOOT via the network is only possible if your bootrom
is `rev. c' or later.  (This only applies to the 320/350 era machines.)

If you wish to load the SYS_UBOOT program via the network, you need to
either have another OpenBSD system on the network, or something else
capable of running the rbootd(8) program.  Source code may be found
under usr.sbin/rbootd in the OpenBSD source tree, but requires the
Berkeley Packet Filter (bpf) in order to function.  It may be possible to
use HP-UX, but is not recommended (or documented here).  For more
information on diskless booting under OpenBSD, see the diskless(8)
manual page.

First of all, configure your rbootd to handle boot requests from the
client.  NOTE: OpenBSD's `rbootd' is slightly different from HP-UX's.
To configure OpenBSD's `rbootd', create a file called `/etc/rbootd.conf'
and place in it an entry like the following:

	08:00:09:04:AA:33	SYS_UBOOT	# thunder-egg

The first column is the ethernet address of the client's network interface.
The second column is the program to send to the client, and anything after
the `#' is a comment.  Once you have rbootd running, copy the SYS_UBOOT
program to the /usr/mdec/rbootd directory on your server.  If this
directory doesn't exist already, you will need to create it.

Next, add the client to /etc/ethers on your server.  For example:

	08:00:09:04:AA:33	thunder-egg

Then start `rarpd' on your server; `rarpd -a' should do the trick.

Finally, you need to add an entry in /etc/bootparams.  For example:

	thunder-egg	root=myserver:/export/MACHINE

Where myserver is the name of your server machine and `/export/MACHINE'
is the directory that holds the ramdisk kernel image (`bsd.rd').
Now run `rpc.bootparamd' and make sure that this directory is NFS
exported to the client.  See the manual pages on your server system
if you need more information about exporting filesystems.  If you
run into problems you may wish to run `rpc.bootparamd' with the `-d'
flag on your server to get extra debugging information.

You are now ready to load SYS_UBOOT.  During the client's self-test cycle,
press the space bar.  Shortly, you should see a menu of possible boot
options appear.  Select the option corresponding to SYS_UBOOT.
SYS_UBOOT will then load and prompt you for a kernel name.  NFS file
names should not have a leading '/' prepended to them, simply use `bsd.rd'.


Installing using the CD-ROM or netboot procedure:

OpenBSDInstallPart2

	Boot your machine from the installation media as described above.

	When presented with the boot prompt, enter the path of your kernel
	(which is likely to be `bsd.rd').

	It will take a while to load the kernel especially from a slow
	speed cdrom or slow network connection, most likely more than
	a minute.  If some action doesn't eventually happen, or the
	spinning cursor has stopped and nothing further has happened,
	either your boot media is bad, your diskless setup is incorrect,
	or you may have a hardware or configuration problem.
	Remember that if your machine is a 425e, you must use a serial
	console, even if you can initiate the boot process from the
	graphics console.


OpenBSDBootMsgs

	You will next be asked for your terminal type.  There are only
	a few specific terminal types supported.  If you are using a
	graphics display, just hit return to select the default (hp300h).
	If you are using an ASCII terminal, it should either be an HP
	or vt100 compatible terminal; nothing else is supported.  (If
	your terminal type is xterm, just use vt100).
	
	After entering the terminal type you will be asked whether you
	wish to do an "(I)nstall" or an "(U)pgrade".  Enter 'I' for a
	fresh install or 'U' to upgrade an existing installation.

	You will be presented with a welcome message and asked if
	you really wish to install (or upgrade).  Assuming you
	answered yes, the install program will then tell you which
	disks of that type it can install on, and ask you which it
	should use.  The name of the disk is typically "hd0" for
	HPIB/CS80 drives or "sd0" for SCSI drives.  Reply with the
	name of your disk.

	Next the disk label which defines the layout of the OpenBSD
	file systems must be set up.  The installation script will
	invoke an interactive editor allowing you to do this.  Note
	that partition 'c' inside this disk label should ALWAYS
	reflect the entire disk, including any non-OpenBSD portions.
	The root file system should be in partition 'a', and swap
	is usually in partition 'b'.  It is recommended that you
	create separate partitions for /usr and /var, and if you
	have room for it, one for /home.  For help in the disk
	label editor, enter '?' or 'M' to view the manual page (see
	the info on the ``-E'' flag).

	Since the target disk will become the boot disk for your new
	OpenBSD/MACHINE installation, the disklabel program will restrict
	the available disk area to keep the first cylinder, which will
	contain the bootblock, safe from being overwritten. If you don't
	plan to install a bootblock on this disk, you can reclaim this
	space with the 'b' command.

	The swap partition (usually 'b') should have a type of "swap", all
	other native OpenBSD partitions should have a type of "4.2BSD".
	Block and fragment sizes are usually 8192 and 1024 bytes, but can
	also be 4096 and 512 or even 16384 and 2048 bytes.

	The install program will now label your disk and ask which file
	systems should be created on which partitions.  It will auto-
	matically select the 'a' partition to be the root file system.
	Next it will ask for which disk and partition you want a file
	system created on.  This will be the same as the disk name (e.g.
	"hd0") with the letter identifying the partition (e.g. "d")
	appended (e.g. "hd0d").  Then it will ask where this partition is
	to be mounted, e.g. /usr.  This process will be repeated until
	you enter "done".

	At this point you will be asked to confirm that the file system
	information you have entered is correct, and given an opportunity
	to change the file system table.  Next it will create the new file
	systems as specified, OVERWRITING ANY EXISTING DATA.  This is the
	point of no return.

	After all your file systems have been created, the install program
	will give you an opportunity to configure the network.  The network
	configuration you enter (if any) can then be used to do the install
	from another system using NFS, HTTP or FTP, and will also be the
	configuration used by the system after the installation is complete.

	If you select to configure the network, the install program will
	ask you for a name of your system and the DNS domain name to use.
	Note that the host name should be without the domain part, and that
	the domain name should NOT {:-include-:} the host name part.

	Next the system will give you a list of network interfaces you can
	configure.  For each network interface you select to configure, it
	will ask for the IP address to use, the symbolic host name to use,
	the netmask to use and any interface-specific flags to set.  No
	interface-specific flags should be required.

	After all network interfaces has been configured the install pro-
	gram will ask for a default route and IP address of the primary
	name server to use.  You will also be presented with an opportunity
	to edit the host table.

	At this point you will be allowed to edit the file system table
	that will be used for the remainder of the installation and that
	will be used by the finished system, following which the new file
	systems will be mounted to complete the installation.

	After these preparatory steps have been completed, you will be
	able to extract the distribution sets onto your system.  There
	are several install methods supported; FTP, HTTP, tape, CD-ROM, NFS
	or a local disk partition.

OpenBSDFTPInstall

OpenBSDHTTPInstall

OpenBSDTAPEInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall

OpenBSDNFSInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall({:-"hdN" or -:},{:-only -:})

OpenBSDCommonFS

OpenBSDCommonURL

OpenBSDCongratulations
