Currently, only installing the miniroot from the network is supported.
This may change in a future release.

You will need information about your disk's geometry, based on 512-byte
sectors.  You must have this information before proceeding.  The
file `.../install/HP-IB.geometry' has geometry inforomation for several
HP-IB disks, but may be incomplete.  Geometry may be calculated from an
HP-UX `/etc/disktab' entry, but note that HP-UX geometry is based on
1024 byte sectors, while NetBSD's is based on 512 byte sectors.

QUICK NOTE ABOUT PARTITIONS:  Since the target disk will become the boot
disk for your new NetBSD/hp300 installation, you will need to treat the
`a' and `c' partitions in a special manner.  Due to the size of the
NetBSD/hp300 boot program (it spills into the area after the disklabel),
it is necessary to offset the `a' partition one cylinder from the beginning
of the disk.  Later, the `c' partition will be marked with the type
`FS_BOOT' and may not be used for a filesystem.  (For those unfamiliar
with historic BSD partition conventions, the `c' partition is defined
as `the entire disk', or the `raw partition'.)

A QUICK NOTE ABOUT DISK NUMBERS:  While in the SYS_INST program, you
may use different unit numbers for the disks than when the NetBSD
kernel is running.  The unit number for a disk while in SYS_INST is
calculated with the following formula:

	unit = (controller * 8) + slave

Controllers are numbered 0, 1, ... starting with the lowest select code.
SCSI controllers and HP-IB controllers are counted separately.  Therefore,
if you had a system with an internal HP-IB interface at select code 7,
a fast HP-IB interface at select code 14, and a SCSI interface at select
code 16, unit numers might be something like the following:

	Location			Unit
	--------			----
	HP-IB at 7, slave 2		2	(disk: rd2)
	HP-IB at 14, slave 5		13	(disk: rd13)
	SCSI at 16, slave 0		0	(disk: sd0)


                   Miniroot installation via network
	           ---------------------------------
NOTE:  BOOTING SYS_INST VIA THE NETWORK IS ONLY POSSIBLE IF YOUR BOOTROM
IS `REV. C' OR LATER.

In order to complete this process, you will need the following from the
`.../install' directory of the distribution:

	SYS_INST	The standalone disklabel and miniroot
			installation tool

	inst-11.fs.gz	A gzipped miniroot filesystem image.  This image
			must be un-gzipped before copying to disk.

To boot SYS_INST via the network, you will need a system capable of handling
boot requests for an HP workstation.  If you will use this method, see the
special note below.

To boot SYS_INST from tape, you need only place SYS_INST on the tape as
the first file.

-- The following section is specific for loading SYS_INST via the network. --

If you wish to load the SYS_INST program via the network, you may need
the following from the `.../install' directory in addition to the items
listed above:

	rbootd.tar.gz	Source code for the rbootd program included with
			NetBSD.  It requires that the server have a
			Berkeley Packet Filter (bpf).  You will need to
			compile this version of rbootd if your server
			system does not have this utility already.

First of all, configure your rbootd to handle boot requests from the
client.  NOTE: NetBSD's `rbootd' is slightly different from HP-UX's.
To configure NetBSD's `rbootd', create a file called `/etc/rbootd.conf'
and place in it an entry like the following:

	08:00:09:04:AA:33	SYS_INST	# thunder-egg

The first column is the ethernet address of the client's network interface.
The second column is the program to send to the client, and anything after
the `#' is a comment.  Once you have rbootd running, copy the SYS_INST
program to the /usr/mdec/rbootd directory on your server.  If this
directory doesn't exist already, you will need to create it.

For information on configuring rbootd under HP-UX, see the rbootd(1M)
manual page on your server system.

Once `rbootd' is configured and running, you will be ready to continue.

------------------ End of network boot-specific section ----------------------

Make sure that the miniroot filesystem image has been un-gzipped, and
that it resides in a filesystem what is exported to the client.  See the
manual pages on your server system if you need more information about
exporting filesystems.

You are now ready to SYS_INST.  During the client's self-test cycle, press
the space bar a few times.  Shortly, you should see a menu of possible boot
options appear.  Select the option corresponding to SYS_INST.  SYS_INST will
load and prompt you for a command.

If this is a new NetBSD installation, you will need to place a disklabel
on the disk.

	sys_inst> disklabel

NOTE: it may be worth selecting the `zap' option initially to ensure that
the disklabel area is clear.  This may be especially important if an
HP-UX boot block had been previously installed on the disk.

Select the `edit' option, and answer the questions about your disk.
There may be several questions which you may not be sure of the answers
to.  Listed below are guidelines for SCSI and HP-IB disks:

	Bad sectoring?		NO
	Ecc?			NO
	Interleave?		1
	Trackskew?		0
	Cylinderskew?		0
	Headswitch?		0
	Track-to-track?		0
	Drivedata 0-4?		0 (for all Drivedata values)

Next, you will be asked to fill out the partition map.  You must provide
responses for all 8 partitions.  Remember, you must allocate at least 6M
for the `b' partition, or else the miniroot will not fit.  Set the size and
offset of any unused partition to 0.  Note that sizes and offsets are
expressed in `n sectors', assuming 512 byte sectors.  Care should be taken
to ensure that partitions begin and end on cylinder boundaries (i.e. size
and offset is an even multiple of the number of sectors per cylinder).
While this is not technically necessary, it is generally encouraged.  Note
that you cannot enter partition types at this time.  You will be given an
oppotinuty to `clean up' the disklabel later on in the installation procedure.

Once you have edited the label, select the `show' option to verify that
it is correct.  If so, select `write' and `done'.  Otherwise, you may
re-edit the label.

The next step is to copy the miniroot image onto the target disk.

	sys_inst> miniroot

You will be prompted for the target disk and the source of the miniroot
filesytem image.

Enter the filename of the miniroot image.  Note that this file _must_ reside
in the server directory being mounted.  Next you will be asked for the
client's IP address, netmask, and default router, the server's IP address,
and the directory on the server to mount.  Once you have entered this
information, SYS_INST will attempt to mount the NFS server and begin copying
the miniroot filesystem to the `b' partition of the target disk.

Is is worth noting that this copy may take a while.  It might be worth
grabbing a cup of coffee at this point.

Once the miniroot filesystem image has been copied onto the target disk,
you may boot from the miniroot filesystem.

	sys_inst> boot

Enter the disk from which to boot.  The kernel in the miniroot filesystem
will be booted into single-user mode.
