Installation is supported from several media types, including:
	Tape
	NFS partitions
	FTP

The steps necessary to prepare the distribution sets
for installation depend on which method of installation
you choose.  The various methods are explained below.

To prepare for installing via a tape:

	To install NetBSD from a tape, you need to somehow
	get the NetBSD filesets you wish to install on
	your system on to the appropriate kind of tape,
	in tar format.

	If you're making the tape on a UN*X system, the easiest
	way to do so is:

		tar cvf <tape_device> <files>

	where "<tape_device>" is the name of the tape device
	that describes the tape drive you're using (possibly
	something like /dev/nrst0, but we make no guarantees 8-).
	Under HP-UX, this would be something like /dev/rmt/c0ed03inb.
	Again, your mileage may vary.  If you can't figure it out,
	ask your system administrator.  "<files>" are the names
	of the "set_name.nnn" files which you want to be placed
	on the tape.

	Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next
	step in the installation process, preparing your 
	system for NetBSD installation.

To prepare for installing via an NFS partition:

	NOTE: this method of installation is recommended
	      only for those already familiar with using
	      the BSD network-manipulation commands and
	      interfaces.  If you aren't, this documentation
	      should help, but is not intended to be
	      all-encompassing.

	Place the NetBSD software you wish to install into
	a directory on an NFS server, and make that directory
	mountable by the machine which you will be installing
	NetBSD on.  This will probably require modifying the
	/etc/exports file of the NFS server and resetting
	mountd, acts which will require superuser privileges.
	Note the numeric IP address of the NFS server and of
	the router closest to the the new NetBSD machine,
	if the NFS server is not on a network which is
	directly attached to the NetBSD machine.

	Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next
	step in the installation process, preparing your
	system for NetBSD installation.

To prepare for installing via FTP:

	NOTE: this method of installation is recommended
	      only for those already familiar with using
	      the BSD network-manipulation commands and
	      interfaces.  If you aren't, this documentation
	      should help, but is not intended to be
	      all-encompassing.

	The preparations for this method of installation
	are easy: all you have to do is make sure that
	there's some FTP site from which you can retrieve
	the NetBSD installation when it's time to do
	the install.  You should know the numeric IP
	address of that site, the numeric IP address of
	your nearest router if one is necessary

	Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next
	step in the installation process, preparing your
	system for NetBSD installation.
