dnl	$OpenBSD: install,v 1.14 2010/03/16 17:23:09 miod Exp $
OpenBSDInstallPrelude

If OpenBSD will be sharing the disk with another operating system,
you should have already completed the section of these notes that
instructed you on how to prepare your hard disk.  You should know
the size of the OpenBSD area of the disk and its offset from the
beginning of the disk.  You will need this information when setting up
your OpenBSD partitions.

There are several ways to install OpenBSD onto a disk.  The easiest way,
should your computer support it, is to boot off the OpenBSD CD-ROM, or
off the bootable CD-ROM mini image. Otherwise, you can boot from a 3.5"
1.44MB floppy disk if your machine has a floppy drive.  If your machine
supports PXE network boots, you could try to configure a server for a
network install.

OpenBSDInstallPart2

	If you are using CD-ROM or floppy media, ensure the disk is in
	the drive before starting.

	Reboot the computer to begin the install.  You might have to play
	with your BIOS options to get the computer to boot from the
	correct installation media (floppy, CD, or network/PXE) rather
	than from the hard disk.

	If you are installing across the network with PXE, you will need
	to tell pxeboot to get the bsd.rd install kernel:

	    boot> boot bsd.rd

	It can take a while to load the kernel from a floppy, slow speed
	CD-ROM drive, or across a network, most likely more than a minute.
	If some action doesn't eventually happen, or the spinning cursor
	has stopped and nothing further has happened, either your boot
	floppy is bad or you are having hardware problems. If trying
	another floppy disk doesn't help, try booting after disabling your
	CPU's internal and external caches (if any).  If it still doesn't
	work, OpenBSD probably can't be run on your hardware.  This can
	probably be considered a bug, so you might want to report it.  If
	you do, please {:-include-:} as many details about your system
	configuration as you can.

OpenBSDInstallPart3

OpenBSDInstallPart4

OpenBSDInstallMBRPart1

OpenBSDInstallMBRPart2(yup)

OpenBSDInstallPart5({:-
	If you have DOS or Linux partitions defined on the disk, these
	will usually show up as partition 'i', 'j' and so on.-:})

OpenBSDInstallPart6({:-CD-ROM, tape, -:})

OpenBSDURLInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall({:-"wdN" or -:},,{:- or MS-DOS-:})

OpenBSDCommonInstall

OpenBSDTAPEInstall

OpenBSDInstallWrapup

OpenBSDCongratulations
