OpenBSDInstallPrelude

For most systems, the easiest way to install OpenBSD/MACHINE OSREV is via
diskless booting over an Ethernet network.  You will need both the
"boot.mop" image and the "bsd.rd" kernel to boot.  You will also need a
machine configured as a rarp, MOP, bootparam, and NFS server.

Should your VAX have supported SCSI, however, we provide a floppy image
that can be written onto a disk in another system, and when booted on
the VAX will present you with the standard install prompt. If this is
the case, you can skip ahead to the "ready to install OpenBSD" section.

This document will shortly provide examples on how to set up services
for an OpenBSD netboot server. But if more information is required,
the following resources may be helpful:

The OpenBSD manpages for rarpd(8), mopd(8), nfsd(8), mountd(8),
rpc.bootparamd(8), bootparams(5), and diskless(8). These pages are
available online at: <http://www.openbsd.org/cgi-bin/man.cgi>

Brian Chase <bdc@world.std.com> has written a guide for booting a VAX
off of a network.  It was written for NetBSD/MACHINE, but the procedure is
virtually identical on OpenBSD, and the document covers the use of
several different platforms as servers.
 
The guide is available at:
<http://world.std.com/~bdc/projects/vaxen/VAX-netboot-HOWTO>
 
And finally, there is an OpenBSD/MACHINE mailing list at <vax@openbsd.org>
whose readers would generally be pleased to help.


Booting from Network:

When you turn on your VAX, it will run a set of self-diagnostic ROM routines.
Depending on the model of VAX you have, it may take quite a while.  When 
it is done, you will see a >>> prompt (also called the chevron prompt) on the
console.  Typing "show dev" or "show ethernet" to get the VAX ethernet 
device's MAC address usually works; also try "TEST 50" on MicroVAXen 2000
and 3100.

You will need to create an /etc/ethers file on the bootserver.  This file
will be used by rarpd to answer rarp (ethernet address->IP address) requests.
The format of this file is the ethernet address followed by the machine
name or address.  Here is an example:

08:00:2b:24:72:00		quickvax

Then start rarpd (or configure /etc/rc.conf to always start rarpd).

Copy boot.mop into /tftpboot/mop/1a2b3c4d5e6f.SYS, where "1a2b3c4d5e6f"
represents the six octets of your ethernet address.  For example, the 
filename for the machine described above would be "08002b247200.SYS".
Note that all non alphanumeric characters must be stripped and the
mac portion must be lower case, the extension upper.
Start mopd by typing "mopd -a".

rpc.bootparamd's configuration file is /etc/bootparams.  The format for this
file is described in the diskless(8) and bootparams(5) manpages.  Enable
rpc.bootparamd in /etc/rc.conf by changing the value of "bootparamd_flags". 
Also, make sure "portmap" is "YES"; you will need portmap running.  

nfsd and mountd configuration are described in their respective manual pages.
Make a separate directory for your VAX's /, make sure it is exported via NFS, 
and place "bsd.rd" there.

Typing "B <DEVICE>", where <DEVICE> is your VAX's ethernet device, at the 
chevron prompt should then load the OpenBSD booter.

OpenBSDInstallPart2

	After setting up your bootserver, boot from it as described above.

	The OpenBSD bootloader will appear, and a countdown should begin;
	type any key on the console and type "boot bsd.rd".  

	It will take a while to load the kernel especially on a slow
	machine, or from a slow network connection, most likely more than
	a minute.  If some action doesn't eventually happen, or the
	spinning cursor has stopped and nothing further has happened,
	either your diskless setup is incorrect, or you may have a
	hardware or configuration problem.


OpenBSDBootMsgs

	You will next be asked for your terminal type.
	If you are installing from a serial console you should choose
	the terminal type from amongst those listed.
	(If your terminal type is xterm, just use vt100).

	After entering the terminal type you will be asked whether you
	wish to do an "(I)nstall" or an "(U)pgrade".  Enter 'I' for a
	fresh install or 'U' to upgrade an existing installation.
	
	You will be presented with a welcome message and asked if
	you really want to continue. Assuming you answered yes, the
	install program will then tell you which disks of that type
	it can install on, and ask you which it should use.  The name
	of the disk is typically "sd0". Reply with the name of your disk.

	Next you will have to edit or create a disklabel for the disk
	OpenBSD is being installed on.  The installation script will
	invoke the text editor allowing you to do this.  Note that
	partition 'c' inside this disk label should ALWAYS reflect the
	entire disk, including any non-OpenBSD portions.  The root file
	system should be in partition 'a', and swap is usually in partition
	'b'.  It is recommended that you create separate partitions for
	root and /usr, you may also want to specify /var and /home
	partitions.

	The swap partition (usually 'b') should have a type of "swap", all
	other native OpenBSD partitions should have a type of "4.2BSD".
	Block and fragment sizes are usually 8192 and 1024 bytes, but can
	also be 16384 and 2048 bytes.

	The install program will now label your disk and ask which file
	systems should be created on which partitions.  It will auto-
	matically select the 'a' partition to be the root file system.
	Next it will ask for which disk and partition you want a file
	system created on.  This will be the same as the disk name (e.g.
	"sd0") with the letter identifying the partition (e.g. "d")
	appended (e.g. "sd0d").  Then it will ask where this partition is
	to be mounted, e.g. /usr.  This process will be repeated until
	you type "done".

	At this point you will be asked to confirm that the file system
	information you have entered is correct, and given an opportunity
	to change the file system table.  Next it will create the new file
	systems as specified, OVERWRITING ANY EXISTING DATA.  This is the
	point of no return.

	After all your file systems have been created, the install program
	will give you an opportunity to configure the network.  The network
	configuration you enter (if any) can then be used to do the install
	from another system using NFS, HTTP or FTP, and will also be the
	configuration used by the system after the installation is complete.

	If you select to configure the network, the install program will
	ask you for a name of your system and the DNS domain name to use.
	Note that the host name should be without the domain part, and that
	the domain name should NOT {:-include-:} the host name part.

	Next the system will give you a list of network interfaces you can
	configure.  For each network interface you select to configure, it
	will ask for the IP address to use, the symbolic host name to use,
	the netmask to use and any media flags to set.

	After all network interfaces have been configured the install pro-
	gram will ask for a default route and IP address of the primary
	name server to use.  You will also be presented with an opportunity
	to edit the host table.

	At this point you will be allowed to edit the file system table
	that will be used for the remainder of the installation and that
	will be used by the finished system, following which the new file
	systems will be mounted to complete the installation.

	After these preparatory steps have been completed, you will be
	able to extract the distribution sets onto your system.  There
	are several install methods supported; FTP, HTTP, tape, CD-ROM, NFS
	or a local disk partition.  Note that installation from floppies
	is not currently supported.

OpenBSDFTPInstall

OpenBSDHTTPInstall

OpenBSDTAPEInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall

OpenBSDNFSInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall(,{:-only-:})

OpenBSDCommonFS

OpenBSDCommonURL

OpenBSDCongratulations
