Installation is supported from several media types, including:

	FFS partitions
	Remote NFS partition
	FTP
	HTTP

To install or upgrade OpenBSD using a remote partition, mounted via
NFS, you must do the following:

    NOTE:   This method of installation is recommended only for
        those already familiar with using BSD network
        configuration and management commands.  If you aren't,
        this documentation should help, but is not intended to
        be all-encompassing.

    Place the OpenBSD distribution sets you wish to install into a
    directory on an NFS server, and make that directory mountable
    by the machine on which you are installing or upgrading OpenBSD.
    This will probably require modifying the /etc/exports file on
    of the NFS server and resetting its mount daemon (mountd).
    (Both of these actions will probably require superuser
    privileges on the server.)

    You need to know the the numeric IP address of the NFS server,
    and, if the server is not on a network directly connected to
    the machine on which you're installing or upgrading OpenBSD,
    you need to know the numeric IP address of the router closest
    to the OpenBSD machine.  Finally, you need to know the numeric
    IP address of the OpenBSD machine itself.

    Once the NFS server is set up properly and you have the
    information mentioned above, you can proceed to the next step
    in the installation or upgrade process.  If you're installing
    OpenBSD from scratch, go to the section on preparing your hard
    disk, below.  If you're upgrading an existing installation, go
    directly to the section on upgrading.	

If you are upgrading OpenBSD, you also have the option of installing
OpenBSD by putting the new distribution sets somewhere in your existing
file system, and using them from there.  To do that, you must do the
following:

    Place the distribution sets you wish to upgrade somewhere in
    your current file system tree.  At a bare minimum, you must
    upgrade the "base" binary distribution, and so must put the
    "base{:--:}OSrev" set somewhere in your file system.  If you wish,
    you can do the other sets, as well, but you should NOT upgrade
    the "etc" distribution; the "etc" distribution contains system
    configuration files that you should review and update by hand.

    Once you have done this, you can proceed to the next step in
    the upgrade process, actually upgrading your system.
