The mac68k-specific portion of the OpenBSD 2.1 release is found in the
"mac68k" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../2.1/mac68k/
		INSTALL.mac68k	This file
		bins/		mac68k binary distribution sets;
				see below.
		inst/		The mac68k installation utilities for MacOS.

The OpenBSD/mac68k binary distribution sets contain all the binaries which
are need to run the OpenBSD 2.1 release for the mac68k.  There are eight binary
distribution sets.  The binary distribution sets can be found in the
subdirectory "mac68k/bins" of the OpenBSD 2.1 distribution tree, and
are as follows:

	bsd21.tar.gz	The OpenBSD/mac68k 2.1 kernel binary.  You MUST
		install this file.  It is the kernel that you need
		to boot the system.
		[ 307K gzipped, 610K uncompressed ]

	bsd21-sbc.tar.gz The OpenBSD/mac68k kernel binary.  This is
		identical in every way to bsd21.tar.gz accept that
		it enables a different SCSI driver which may allow
		some otherwise incompatible SCSI disks to function
		with OpenBSD/mac68k.  You must install either this
		or bsd21.tar.gz.

	base21.tar.gz	The OpenBSD/mac68k 2.1 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base OpenBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 6.2M gzipped, 18.4M uncompressed ]

	comp21.tar.gz	The OpenBSD/mac68k Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN (yes, there are two!).
		This set includes the system header files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.  It is very almost a must
		to install this set if one wants an even minimally
		functional system.
		[ 4.0M gzipped, 12.7M uncompressed ]

	etc21.tar.gz	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 50K gzipped, 280K uncompressed ]

	games21.tar.gz	This set includes the BSD games and their manual pages.
		It's installation is optional.
		[ 1.0M gzipped, 3.0M uncompressed ]

	man21.tar.gz	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.  Installation of
		this set is completely optional but is highly recommended.
		[ 0.7M gzipped, 2.8M uncompressed ]

	misc21.tar.gz	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default as well as
		many other sundry system files and programs.  This set
		is not necessarry but will improve the functionallity
		of many system programs.
		[ 1.6M gzipped, 5.7M uncompressed ]

	text21.tar.gz	This set includes OpenBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.  This set is highly recommended as
		these programs are depended upon for such basic 
		system functions as reading manual pages.
		[ 0.8M gzipped, 2.9M uncompressed ]

The mac68k binary distribution sets are distributed in the same form as
the source distribution sets; that is, the members of a set
form a gzipped tar file which is assumed to be relative to the root
of a system's directory tree.  In other words, all sets files should be
extracted from '/'.  The instructions given for extracting the source sets
work equally well for the binary sets.

The directory '../2.1/mac68k/inst' contains a number of utilities for the
MacOS to aid the installation and configuration of OpenBSD.  The files in
this directory are as follows:

	booter.sit.hqx
		This MacOS program is used to load the OpenBSD kernel and
		start the operating system.  In all cases, you will need to
		download this file.

	installer.sit.hqx
		This is the MacOS program used to install downloaded sets (such
		as those from the bins directory) onto a BSD partition.  It
		is necessarry in either the case of a fresh install or an
		upgrade.

	mkfs.sit.hqx
		A MacOS program to build BSD filesystems on various
		partitions you have created (see below).  You will need this
		if you are performing a new installation.

