The installation can be broken down into three basic steps:
	* Run Mkfs to build a filesystem or filesystems.
	* Run Install Utility to load the files onto your filesystems.
	* Run the booter to boot the system.

**** Preparing the filesystem(s)

Double-click on the Mkfs application icon to start it up.  It will ask
you for the SCSI ID of the drive that you are installing upon.  Once
this is selected, it will present a list of the partitions on that disk.
Select the partition on which you wish to build a filesystem and click
on the "Format" button.  You will now be asked for a bunch of parameters
for the hard drive and the filesystem.  Usually, you can just take the
defaults.  If you are installing onto a Syquest, please see the FAQ.
Note that although this dialog only has the "OK" button, you are not
committed, yet.  Once you get the values you want, press the "OK" button.
A dialog will be presented at this point with two options: "Format" and
"Cancel."  If you choose "Cancel," nothing will be written to your drive.
If you choose "Format," the program will proceed to make a filesystem.

Mkfs is not a well-behaved Macintosh application.  It will not allow
any other tasks to run while it does (cooperative multitasking at its
best).  When it's finished, the program will put up a dialog to ask if
you have scanned the output for any error messages.  Usually there won't
have been any errors, but do scan the output to make sure.  Simply click
on the "I Read It" button and the program will quit.

Repeat as necessary for any extra partitions that you wish to make
filesystems on.  Note that you do _not_ need a filesystem on your swap
partition.

**** Installing the files

Double-click on the Install Utility icon to start it up.  The installer
will present the same SCSI ID menu that mkfs did.  Select the same SCSI
ID that you did for mkfs--i.e., the one you are installing onto.

If you are installing onto a single root partition, proceed to the
"Installation of base files" section, below.

	If you have not created filesystems for the root, usr, and
	any other filesystems, go back to "Preparing the filesystem(s),"
	above.

	When you started the installer, it mounted your root partition.
	Just before it printed, "Mounting partition 'A' as /," it printed
	lines like:
		sd1 at scsi ID 5.
	This means that the device for scsi ID 5 is sd1.  The partitions
	are signified by a trailing letter.  For instance, sd1a would be
	the root partition of the second scsi disk in the chain, and sd0g
	would be the first usr partition on the first scsi disk.

	You will need to know the proper device to mount the remaining
	partition(s) by hand:

		* Select "Build Devices" from the "File" menu.

		* Select "Mini Shell" from the "File" menu.

		* Mount the filesystems you wish with the command:
			mount device path
		  For example, if you wish to mount a usr partition from
		  the first scsi disk, sd0, on /usr, you would type:
			mount /dev/sd0g /usr

		* Type "quit" after you have mounted all the filesystems.

Installation of base files:

	Select the "Install" menu item from the "File" menu and install
	base11, netbsd, and any other packages you wish to install at
	this time (see the contents section for information about what's
	in each package).  The installer will print out the filename of
	each file as it is installed, and will take quite some time to
	install everything.

	As is the case with Mkfs, this is not a particularly well-behaved
	Macintosh application and the machine will be completely tied up
	while the installation takes place.

	At some point after installing the base package, select the "Build
	Devices" option from the "File" menu.  This will create a bunch of
	device nodes for you and will create your initial /etc/fstab.  The
	installer program also has an option to give you a mini-shell.  Do
	not use this unless you know what you are doing.

**** Booting the system

Double-click on the MacBSD Booter icon to start the application.  Check
that the options in the Booting dialog look sane--especially the SCSI ID.
If not, correct them to your preference.  When you are satisfied with
your choices, try booting NetBSD.

If you wish to save your preferences, choose the "Save Preferences"
option in the "File" menu, then quit the application and restart.  Due
to a long-standing bug, the preferences will not be saved unless you
quit.

If the system does not come up:
	* Check the "diagnostic gray bars" check-box.
	* Count the number of "gray bars" you see.
	* Send mail to alice@cray-ymp.acm.stuorg.vt.edu describing
	  your software, your hardware, and the number of bars that
	  you saw.

If the system does come up, congratulations, you have successfully
installed NetBSD 1.1.  When you reboot into NetBSD, you should log
in as "root" at the login prompt.  There is no initial password, but
if you're using the machine in a networked environment, you should
create yourself an account and protect it and the "root" account with
good passwords.

Some of the files in the NetBSD 1.1 distribution might need to be
tailored for your site.  In particular, the /etc/sendmail.cf file will
almost definitely need to be adjusted, and other files in /etc will
probably need to be modified, as well.  If you are unfamiliar with
UN*X-like system administration, it's recommended that you buy a book
that discusses it.
