dnl	$OpenBSD: prep,v 1.15 2004/12/03 20:42:05 miod Exp $
If your machine only has one SCSI disk, you will need to share the disk
with Mac OS.  You might have to repartition and/or reinstall Mac OS in
order to make room available for OpenBSD.

Find your favorite disk partitioning utility.  Some of the ones that have
been tried and seem to work are:
	APS Powertools 2.7.3
	SCSI Directory Lite
	Disk Manager Mac from OnTrack
	HD SC Setup from Apple
	I/O Formatter from Diversified (?)
	Silverlining from LaCie

"HD SC Setup" is included with the supported versions of Mac OS.
This utility ignores non-Apple hard disks unless you patch it with the
application found at the following URL:
  http://www.euronet.nl/users/ernstoud/hdpatch.html
Alternatively, one might prefer to use the A/UX version which does not
have such a restriction, and can be found at the following URL:
  http://www.euronet.nl/users/ernstoud/hdsetup.html

Prior to attempting to repartition your disk, everything of value on the
drive should be backed up.  All information on the drive you will be
repartitioning will be lost.

That done, use your favorite partitioning utility and make any necessary
Mac OS partitions, then restore your data.

You might want to create your OpenBSD partitions at this time, rather than
with the "pdisk" utility during the installation itself. In this case,
create one "A/UX Root" partition (for the / filesystem), one "Swap"
partition (for swap, obviously), and as many "Usr file system" or
"Unreserved" partitions as you want (for the other filesystems, such as
/tmp, /usr, /var, etc).

You will also need to install the BSD/Mac68k Booter on your Mac OS
system. It is available in the utils/ subdirectory of the distribution,
in self-extracting and binhex form as booter.sea.hqx.
Extract it as you would for any other Macintosh application.

Before moving on, you should make sure that your machine is running the
correct software on the Mac OS side.  In the Memory control panel, you
should turn Virtual Memory off whenever you are planning to use the
BSD/Mac68k Booter.

You should also make sure that your machine is using 32-bit addressing.
If there is no "Addressing:" option in your Memory control panel and your
machine is supported, you will probably need Mode32.  Mode32 is a control
panel and extension combination which enables 32-bit addressing on older
Macs which do not use it by default.  This program is available from any
Info-Mac mirror.

All of that done and accounted for, you are now set to install OpenBSD on
your hard drive.
