dnl	$OpenBSD: install,v 1.4 2005/01/15 17:52:09 miod Exp $
OpenBSDInstallPrelude

OpenBSD is installed on the Zaurus by effectively converting
Linux into a boatloader.  You will need the following files
from the distribution:

	zbsdmod.o
	zboot
	bsd.rd

After starting up some sort of terminal emulator on the Zaurus
and becoming root, perform the following operation:

	# insmod -f zbsdmod.o
	# cp bsd.rd /proc/zboot

A few seconds later, OpenBSD will boot on your Zaurus.

If you already have a bsd.rd or bsd kernel contained in a FFS
partition on the C3000 hard drive, you can instead use 

	# insmod -f zbsdmod.o
	# zboot

OpenBSDInstallPart2

OpenBSDBootMsgs

	You will next be asked for your terminal type.  You should just
	hit return to select the default (vt220).

OpenBSDInstallPart3({:- or "wd0" for IDE drives-:})

	Next you will have to edit or create a disk label for the disk
	OpenBSD is being installed on.  If there are any existing
	partitions defined (for any operating system), and a disk label
	is not found, you will first be given an opportunity to run
	fdisk and create an OpenBSD partition.

	If fdisk is being invoked on your behalf, it will start by
	displaying the current partitions defined and then allow you
	to modify this information, add new partitions and change
	which partition to boot from by default.  If you make a mistake,
	you will be allowed to repeat this procedure as necessary to
	correct this.  Note that you should make OpenBSD be the active
	partition at least until the install has been completed.

OpenBSDInstallPart4({:- If you have Linux partitions
	defined on the disk, these will usually show up as partition
	'h', 'i' and so on.-:})

dnl Change this after fdisk swap command is added.
	One of the three partitions on the Zaurus C3000 hard drive is
	a 3GB MSDOS filesystem.  It is recommended that you use fdisk
	to convert this Zaurus partition to an OpenBSD partition by
	changing the partition ID to 'A5'.

	Note that all OpenBSD partitions in the disk label must have an
	offset that makes it start within the OpenBSD part of the disk,
	and a size that keeps it inside of that portion of the disk.  This
	is within the bounds of the 'c' partition if the disk is not being
	shared with other operating systems, and within the OpenBSD fdisk
	partition if the disk is being shared.

	If you have created an 'A5' OpenBSD partition earlier using fdisk,
	you will be able to use disklabel to cut that partition into at
	least a root filesystem and swap partition.

OpenBSDInstallPart5(wd0)

OpenBSDInstallNet({:-CD-ROM, -:},nofloppy)

OpenBSDFTPInstall

OpenBSDHTTPInstall

OpenBSDTAPEInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall({:-"wdN" or -:},,{:- or Linux (ext2)-:})

OpenBSDCommonFS

OpenBSDCommonURL

OpenBSDCongratulations
